docs/src/content/docs/guides/campaigns/cli-commands.md, before:

---
title: CLI commands
description: Command reference for managing agentic campaigns with gh aw
---

The GitHub Agentic Workflows CLI provides commands for inspecting, validating, and managing agentic campaigns.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> **Use the automated creation flow to create campaigns.** The CLI commands below are for inspecting, validating, and managing existing campaigns. See the [Getting started guide](/gh-aw/guides/campaigns/getting-started/) for campaign creation.

## Campaign commands

From the root of the repo:

```bash
gh aw campaign                         # List all agentic campaigns
gh aw campaign security                # Filter by ID or name substring
gh aw campaign --json                  # JSON output

gh aw campaign status                  # Live status for all agentic campaigns
gh aw campaign status incident         # Filter by ID or name substring
gh aw campaign status --json           # JSON status output

gh aw campaign new my-campaign-id      # Scaffold a new agentic campaign spec
gh aw campaign validate                # Validate agentic campaign specs (fails on problems)
gh aw campaign validate --no-strict    # Report problems without failing
```

## List campaigns

Display all agentic campaigns defined in `.github/workflows/*.campaign.md`:

```bash
gh aw campaign
```

Filter by campaign ID or name:

```bash
gh aw campaign security
```

Get machine-readable JSON output:

```bash
gh aw campaign --json
```

## Check campaign status

View live status of all agentic campaigns with their associated project boards:

```bash
gh aw campaign status
```

Filter status by campaign ID or name:

```bash
gh aw campaign status incident
```

Get status in JSON format:

```bash
gh aw campaign status --json
```

## Create new campaign (advanced)

> [!WARNING]
> This command is for advanced use cases only. **Use the [automated creation flow](/gh-aw/guides/campaigns/getting-started/) instead.**

Scaffold a new agentic campaign spec file interactively:

```bash
gh aw campaign new my-campaign-id
```

This creates `.github/workflows/my-campaign-id.campaign.md` with a basic structure, but you'll still need to manually configure all fields and compile the campaign.

## Validate campaigns

Validate all agentic campaign specs:

```bash
gh aw campaign validate
```

By default, validation fails if problems are found. For non-failing validation (useful in CI while you iterate):

```bash
gh aw campaign validate --no-strict
```

## Compilation and orchestrators (advanced)

> [!NOTE]
> Compilation is handled automatically by the [automated creation flow](/gh-aw/guides/campaigns/getting-started/). These details are for understanding how campaigns work internally.

**Agentic campaign specs and orchestrators:** When agentic campaign spec files exist under `.github/workflows/*.campaign.md`, `gh aw compile` validates those specs (including referenced `workflows`) and fails if problems are found. By default, `compile` also synthesizes an orchestrator workflow for each valid spec that has meaningful details and compiles it to a corresponding `.campaign.lock.yml` file. Orchestrators are only generated when the agentic campaign spec includes tracker labels, workflows, memory paths, or a metrics glob.

> [!NOTE]
> During compilation, a `.campaign.g.md` file is generated locally as a debug artifact to help developers review the orchestrator structure, but this file is not committed to git—only the compiled `.campaign.lock.yml` is tracked.

See the [compile command documentation](/gh-aw/setup/cli/#compile) for details.

Commit message:

Add build phase warnings to campaign documentation (#10541)

docs/src/content/docs/guides/campaigns/cli-commands.md, after:

---
title: CLI commands
description: Command reference for managing agentic campaigns with gh aw
---

> [!WARNING]
> **Please do not use at this time.** Campaigns are currently in build phase and not ready for production. This feature is under active development and may have breaking changes.

The GitHub Agentic Workflows CLI provides commands for inspecting, validating, and managing agentic campaigns.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> **Use the automated creation flow to create campaigns.** The CLI commands below are for inspecting, validating, and managing existing campaigns. See the [Getting started guide](/gh-aw/guides/campaigns/getting-started/) for campaign creation.

## Campaign commands

From the root of the repo:

```bash
gh aw campaign                         # List all agentic campaigns
gh aw campaign security                # Filter by ID or name substring
gh aw campaign --json                  # JSON output

gh aw campaign status                  # Live status for all agentic campaigns
gh aw campaign status incident         # Filter by ID or name substring
gh aw campaign status --json           # JSON status output

gh aw campaign new my-campaign-id      # Scaffold a new agentic campaign spec
gh aw campaign validate                # Validate agentic campaign specs (fails on problems)
gh aw campaign validate --no-strict    # Report problems without failing
```

## List campaigns

Display all agentic campaigns defined in `.github/workflows/*.campaign.md`:

```bash
gh aw campaign
```

Filter by campaign ID or name:

```bash
gh aw campaign security
```

Get machine-readable JSON output:

```bash
gh aw campaign --json
```

## Check campaign status

View live status of all agentic campaigns with their associated project boards:

```bash
gh aw campaign status
```

Filter status by campaign ID or name:

```bash
gh aw campaign status incident
```

Get status in JSON format:

```bash
gh aw campaign status --json
```

## Create new campaign (advanced)

> [!WARNING]
> This command is for advanced use cases only. **Use the [automated creation flow](/gh-aw/guides/campaigns/getting-started/) instead.**

Scaffold a new agentic campaign spec file interactively:

```bash
gh aw campaign new my-campaign-id
```

This creates `.github/workflows/my-campaign-id.campaign.md` with a basic structure, but you'll still need to manually configure all fields and compile the campaign.

## Validate campaigns

Validate all agentic campaign specs:

```bash
gh aw campaign validate
```

By default, validation fails if problems are found. For non-failing validation (useful in CI while you iterate):

```bash
gh aw campaign validate --no-strict
```

## Compilation and orchestrators (advanced)

> [!NOTE]
> Compilation is handled automatically by the [automated creation flow](/gh-aw/guides/campaigns/getting-started/). These details are for understanding how campaigns work internally.

**Agentic campaign specs and orchestrators:** When agentic campaign spec files exist under `.github/workflows/*.campaign.md`, `gh aw compile` validates those specs (including referenced `workflows`) and fails if problems are found. By default, `compile` also synthesizes an orchestrator workflow for each valid spec that has meaningful details and compiles it to a corresponding `.campaign.lock.yml` file. Orchestrators are only generated when the agentic campaign spec includes tracker labels, workflows, memory paths, or a metrics glob.

> [!NOTE]
> During compilation, a `.campaign.g.md` file is generated locally as a debug artifact to help developers review the orchestrator structure, but this file is not committed to git—only the compiled `.campaign.lock.yml` is tracked.

See the [compile command documentation](/gh-aw/setup/cli/#compile) for details.
