docs/src/content/docs/guides/campaigns/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Agentic campaigns
description: Coordinate AI agents across multiple workflow runs with structured, goal-driven initiatives tracked in GitHub Projects.
---

import FeatureCard from '../../../../components/FeatureCard.astro';
import FeatureGrid from '../../../../components/FeatureGrid.astro';

> [!WARNING]
> **Please do not use at this time.** Campaigns are currently in build phase and not ready for production. This feature is under active development and may have breaking changes.

## Overview

Agentic campaigns coordinate [agentic workflows](/gh-aw/introduction/overview/) toward a single goal with automated tracking on GitHub Projects.

## Why use campaigns?

<FeatureGrid columns={2}>
  <FeatureCard icon="goal" title="Strategic Goals" href="/gh-aw/guides/campaigns/specs/#core-fields-what-they-do">
    Define objectives with measurable KPIs that track progress automatically
  </FeatureCard>
  <FeatureCard icon="project" title="Unified Tracking" href="/gh-aw/guides/campaigns/project-management/">
    GitHub Project board shows all work items and real-time status
  </FeatureCard>
  <FeatureCard icon="shield" title="Built-in Governance" href="/gh-aw/guides/campaigns/specs/#governance-pacing--safety">
    Rate limits and safety controls keep automation predictable and safe
  </FeatureCard>
  <FeatureCard icon="workflow" title="Reuse Workflows" href="/gh-aw/guides/campaigns/specs/#workflows">
    Coordinate existing agentic workflows without modification
  </FeatureCard>
</FeatureGrid>

## Quick Start

1. **Create** an issue describing your campaign goal
2. **Apply** the `create-agentic-campaign` label to the issue
3. **Wait** 2-3 minutes for automated campaign generation and compilation
4. **Review** the pull request with your complete campaign setup
5. **Merge** and run the orchestrator workflow from the Actions tab

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Use the automated campaign creation flow—it's the only supported way to create campaigns. It handles project board creation, workflow discovery, spec generation, and compilation automatically.

## Campaign modes

Campaigns operate in two distinct modes:

### ProjectOps Pattern (default)
**What it is:** A [ProjectOps](/gh-aw/examples/issue-pr-events/projectops/) pattern where the orchestrator discovers and tracks work created by independent workflows

The orchestrator discovers and tracks work created by independent workflows. This is ProjectOps—automated project board management—with added campaign structure (objectives, KPIs, governance, metrics persistence).

**How it works:**
- Worker workflows run on their own schedules
- Workers create issues/PRs with tracker labels
- Orchestrator discovers items and updates project board
- Progress tracked against campaign objectives
- No workflow execution by the orchestrator

**When to use:** When workflows should remain independently scheduled but you want campaign-level tracking and reporting.

### Campaign Orchestration (`execute-workflows: true`)
**What it is:** True campaign mode where the orchestrator actively runs workflows and drives progress

The orchestrator actively runs workflows, creates missing ones, and drives progress toward objectives. This is true campaign orchestration where the campaign manages and executes work autonomously.

**How it works:**
- Orchestrator executes workflows sequentially
- Creates missing workflows based on campaign needs
- Tests new workflows before use
- Collects outputs for coordination
- Drives progress actively toward objectives

**When to use:** When the campaign should autonomously manage and execute workflows to drive complex initiatives.

**Progression path:** Start with ProjectOps pattern → Enable campaign orchestration when ready.

Apart from the spec file, a campaign includes:
- **Orchestrator** (`.campaign.lock.yml`) - Auto-generated coordinator workflow
- **Workers** - Your existing agentic workflows (or created automatically in orchestration mode)
- **Project Board** - GitHub Projects dashboard for tracking

The orchestrator updates your project board and (in orchestration mode) delegates work execution to workers. Workers stay focused on their specific tasks while the orchestrator handles coordination.

## Example campaign

A campaign is defined by a **Campaign Spec** `.campaign.md` file.
Here is an example for a framework upgrade campaign:

```yaml
---
id: framework-upgrade
name: "Framework Upgrade"
project-url: "https://github.com/orgs/myorg/projects/42"
tracker-label: "campaign:framework-upgrade"

objective: "Upgrade all services to Framework vNext"
kpis:
  - id: services_upgraded
    name: "Services upgraded"
    priority: primary
    target: 50

workflows:
  - framework-scanner
  - framework-upgrader

# Enable active workflow execution
execute-workflows: true

governance:
  max-project-updates-per-run: 20
---
```

With `execute-workflows: true`, the orchestrator will:
- Run `framework-scanner` (creates it if it doesn't exist)
- Test newly created agentic workflows before use
- Execute `framework-upgrader` using scanner outputs
- Track all progress on the GitHub Project board

> [!NOTE]
> Without `execute-workflows: true`, this would be a **ProjectOps pattern** where workflows run independently and the orchestrator only tracks their outputs on the project board.

## Common use cases

<FeatureGrid columns={2}>
  <FeatureCard icon="package" title="Migration Projects" badge="systematic">
    Coordinate changes across repositories with automated tracking
  </FeatureCard>
  <FeatureCard icon="shield-check" title="Security Fixes" badge="time-bound">
    Resolve vulnerabilities systematically with clear progress metrics
  </FeatureCard>
  <FeatureCard icon="beaker" title="Quality Improvements" badge="ongoing">
    Enhance test coverage and documentation incrementally
  </FeatureCard>
  <FeatureCard icon="tools" title="Large Refactorings" badge="phased">
    Execute architectural changes with milestone tracking
  </FeatureCard>
</FeatureGrid>

## Next steps

- **[Quick start](/gh-aw/guides/campaigns/getting-started/)** - Create your first campaign in 5 steps
- **[Campaign flow](/gh-aw/guides/campaigns/flow/)** - Understand the complete campaign lifecycle from start to finish
- **[Campaign specs](/gh-aw/guides/campaigns/specs/)** - Learn the specification format and configuration options
- **[Project management](/gh-aw/guides/campaigns/project-management/)** - Set up GitHub Project boards for campaign dashboards
- **[CLI commands](/gh-aw/guides/campaigns/cli-commands/)** - Reference for campaign compilation and management

Commit message:

Revise title and overview of agentic campaigns
Updated the title and content to clarify the purpose of agentic campaigns.

docs/src/content/docs/guides/campaigns/index.mdx, after:

---
title: About
description: Coordinate AI agents across multiple workflow runs with structured, goal-driven initiatives tracked in GitHub Projects.
---

import FeatureCard from '../../../../components/FeatureCard.astro';
import FeatureGrid from '../../../../components/FeatureGrid.astro';

> [!WARNING]
> **Please do not use at this time.** Campaigns are currently in build phase and not ready for production. This feature is under active development and may have breaking changes.

## What are Agentic Campaigns?

Agentic campaigns are how teams run and manage one or more [agentic workflows](/gh-aw/introduction/overview/) as a single, coordinated effort toward a shared goal.

Agentic workflows are great at getting work done, whether in a single repository or across many. But when that work grows into a larger effort—spanning repositories or organizations and working toward a shared goal—it needs a way to stay coordinated and visible. 

Campaigns provide that structure by orchestrating and running workflows together, with GitHub Project tracking built in for visibility and control.

## Why use campaigns?

<FeatureGrid columns={2}>
  <FeatureCard icon="goal" title="Strategic Goals" href="/gh-aw/guides/campaigns/specs/#core-fields-what-they-do">
    Define objectives with measurable KPIs that track progress automatically
  </FeatureCard>
  <FeatureCard icon="project" title="Unified Tracking" href="/gh-aw/guides/campaigns/project-management/">
    GitHub Project board shows all work items and real-time status
  </FeatureCard>
  <FeatureCard icon="shield" title="Built-in Governance" href="/gh-aw/guides/campaigns/specs/#governance-pacing--safety">
    Rate limits and safety controls keep automation predictable and safe
  </FeatureCard>
  <FeatureCard icon="workflow" title="Reuse Workflows" href="/gh-aw/guides/campaigns/specs/#workflows">
    Coordinate existing agentic workflows without modification
  </FeatureCard>
</FeatureGrid>

## Quick Start

1. **Create** an issue describing your campaign goal
2. **Apply** the `create-agentic-campaign` label to the issue
3. **Wait** 2-3 minutes for automated campaign generation and compilation
4. **Review** the pull request with your complete campaign setup
5. **Merge** and run the orchestrator workflow from the Actions tab

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Use the automated campaign creation flow—it's the only supported way to create campaigns. It handles project board creation, workflow discovery, spec generation, and compilation automatically.

## Campaign modes

Campaigns operate in two distinct modes:

### ProjectOps Pattern (default)
**What it is:** A [ProjectOps](/gh-aw/examples/issue-pr-events/projectops/) pattern where the orchestrator discovers and tracks work created by independent workflows

The orchestrator discovers and tracks work created by independent workflows. This is ProjectOps—automated project board management—with added campaign structure (objectives, KPIs, governance, metrics persistence).

**How it works:**
- Worker workflows run on their own schedules
- Workers create issues/PRs with tracker labels
- Orchestrator discovers items and updates project board
- Progress tracked against campaign objectives
- No workflow execution by the orchestrator

**When to use:** When workflows should remain independently scheduled but you want campaign-level tracking and reporting.

### Campaign Orchestration (`execute-workflows: true`)
**What it is:** True campaign mode where the orchestrator actively runs workflows and drives progress

The orchestrator actively runs workflows, creates missing ones, and drives progress toward objectives. This is true campaign orchestration where the campaign manages and executes work autonomously.

**How it works:**
- Orchestrator executes workflows sequentially
- Creates missing workflows based on campaign needs
- Tests new workflows before use
- Collects outputs for coordination
- Drives progress actively toward objectives

**When to use:** When the campaign should autonomously manage and execute workflows to drive complex initiatives.

**Progression path:** Start with ProjectOps pattern → Enable campaign orchestration when ready.

Apart from the spec file, a campaign includes:
- **Orchestrator** (`.campaign.lock.yml`) - Auto-generated coordinator workflow
- **Workers** - Your existing agentic workflows (or created automatically in orchestration mode)
- **Project Board** - GitHub Projects dashboard for tracking

The orchestrator updates your project board and (in orchestration mode) delegates work execution to workers. Workers stay focused on their specific tasks while the orchestrator handles coordination.

## Example campaign

A campaign is defined by a **Campaign Spec** `.campaign.md` file.
Here is an example for a framework upgrade campaign:

```yaml
---
id: framework-upgrade
name: "Framework Upgrade"
project-url: "https://github.com/orgs/myorg/projects/42"
tracker-label: "campaign:framework-upgrade"

objective: "Upgrade all services to Framework vNext"
kpis:
  - id: services_upgraded
    name: "Services upgraded"
    priority: primary
    target: 50

workflows:
  - framework-scanner
  - framework-upgrader

# Enable active workflow execution
execute-workflows: true

governance:
  max-project-updates-per-run: 20
---
```

With `execute-workflows: true`, the orchestrator will:
- Run `framework-scanner` (creates it if it doesn't exist)
- Test newly created agentic workflows before use
- Execute `framework-upgrader` using scanner outputs
- Track all progress on the GitHub Project board

> [!NOTE]
> Without `execute-workflows: true`, this would be a **ProjectOps pattern** where workflows run independently and the orchestrator only tracks their outputs on the project board.

## Common use cases

<FeatureGrid columns={2}>
  <FeatureCard icon="package" title="Migration Projects" badge="systematic">
    Coordinate changes across repositories with automated tracking
  </FeatureCard>
  <FeatureCard icon="shield-check" title="Security Fixes" badge="time-bound">
    Resolve vulnerabilities systematically with clear progress metrics
  </FeatureCard>
  <FeatureCard icon="beaker" title="Quality Improvements" badge="ongoing">
    Enhance test coverage and documentation incrementally
  </FeatureCard>
  <FeatureCard icon="tools" title="Large Refactorings" badge="phased">
    Execute architectural changes with milestone tracking
  </FeatureCard>
</FeatureGrid>

## Next steps

- **[Quick start](/gh-aw/guides/campaigns/getting-started/)** - Create your first campaign in 5 steps
- **[Campaign flow](/gh-aw/guides/campaigns/flow/)** - Understand the complete campaign lifecycle from start to finish
- **[Campaign specs](/gh-aw/guides/campaigns/specs/)** - Learn the specification format and configuration options
- **[Project management](/gh-aw/guides/campaigns/project-management/)** - Set up GitHub Project boards for campaign dashboards
- **[CLI commands](/gh-aw/guides/campaigns/cli-commands/)** - Reference for campaign compilation and management
