docs/src/content/docs/reference/frontmatter.md, before:

---
title: Frontmatter
description: Complete guide to all available frontmatter configuration options for GitHub Agentic Workflows, including triggers, permissions, AI engines, and workflow settings.
sidebar:
  order: 200
---

The [frontmatter](/gh-aw/reference/glossary/#frontmatter) (YAML configuration section between `---` markers) of GitHub Agentic Workflows includes the triggers, permissions, AI [engines](/gh-aw/reference/glossary/#engine) (which AI model/provider to use), and workflow settings. For example:

```yaml wrap
---
on:
  issues:
    types: [opened]

tools:
  edit:
  bash: ["gh issue comment"]
---
...markdown instructions...
```

## Frontmatter Elements

The frontmatter combines standard GitHub Actions properties (`on`, `permissions`, `run-name`, `runs-on`, `timeout-minutes`, `concurrency`, `env`, `environment`, `container`, `services`, `if`, `steps`, `cache`) with GitHub Agentic Workflows-specific elements (`description`, `source`, `github-token`, `imports`, `engine`, `strict`, `roles`, `features`, `safe-inputs`, `safe-outputs`, `network`, `tools`).

Tool configurations (such as `bash`, `edit`, `github`, `web-fetch`, `web-search`, `playwright`, `cache-memory`, and custom [Model Context Protocol](/gh-aw/reference/glossary/#mcp-model-context-protocol) (MCP) [servers](/gh-aw/reference/glossary/#mcp-server)) are specified under the `tools:` key. Custom inline tools can be defined with the [`safe-inputs:`](/gh-aw/reference/safe-inputs/) (custom tools defined inline) key. See [Tools](/gh-aw/reference/tools/) and [Safe Inputs](/gh-aw/reference/safe-inputs/) for complete documentation.

### Trigger Events (`on:`)

The `on:` section uses standard GitHub Actions syntax to define workflow triggers, with additional fields for security and approval controls:

- Standard GitHub Actions triggers (push, pull_request, issues, schedule, etc.)
- `reaction:` - Add emoji reactions to triggering items
- `stop-after:` - Automatically disable triggers after a deadline
- `manual-approval:` - Require manual approval using environment protection rules
- `forks:` - Configure fork filtering for pull_request triggers

See [Trigger Events](/gh-aw/reference/triggers/) for complete documentation.

### Description (`description:`)

Provides a human-readable description of the workflow rendered as a comment in the generated lock file.

```yaml wrap
description: "Workflow that analyzes pull requests and provides feedback"
```

### Source Tracking (`source:`)

Tracks workflow origin in format `owner/repo/path@ref`. Automatically populated when using `gh aw add` to install workflows from external repositories. Optional for manually created workflows.

```yaml wrap
source: "githubnext/agentics/workflows/ci-doctor.md@v1.0.0"
```

### Labels (`labels:`)

Optional array of strings for categorizing and organizing workflows. Labels are displayed in `gh aw status` command output and can be filtered using the `--label` flag.

```yaml wrap
labels: ["automation", "ci", "diagnostics"]
```

Labels help organize workflows by purpose, team, or functionality. They appear in status command table output as `[automation ci diagnostics]` and as a JSON array in `--json` mode. Filter workflows by label using `gh aw status --label automation`.

### Metadata (`metadata:`)

Optional key-value pairs for storing custom metadata compatible with the [GitHub Copilot custom agent spec](https://docs.github.com/en/copilot/reference/custom-agents-configuration).

```yaml wrap
metadata:
  author: John Doe
  version: 1.0.0
  category: automation
```

**Constraints:**
- Keys: 1-64 characters
- Values: Maximum 1024 characters
- Only string values are supported

Metadata provides a flexible way to add descriptive information to workflows without affecting execution.

### GitHub Token (`github-token:`)

Configures the default GitHub token for engine authentication, checkout steps, and safe-output operations.

```yaml wrap
github-token: ${{ secrets.CUSTOM_PAT }}
```

:::caution[Secret Expression Required]
Must use GitHub Actions secret expressions (e.g., `${{ secrets.CUSTOM_PAT }}`). Plaintext tokens are rejected. Valid: `${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}`, `${{ secrets.CUSTOM_PAT }}`. Invalid: plaintext tokens, environment variables.
:::

**Token precedence** (highest to lowest):
1. Individual safe-output `github-token` (e.g., `create-issue.github-token`)
2. Safe-outputs global `github-token`
3. Top-level `github-token`
4. Default: `${{ secrets.GH_AW_GITHUB_TOKEN || secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}`

See the [Security Guide](/gh-aw/guides/security/#authorization-and-token-management) for complete documentation.

### Permissions (`permissions:`)

The `permissions:` section uses standard GitHub Actions permissions syntax to specify the permissions relevant to the agentic (natural language) part of the execution of the workflow. See [GitHub Actions permissions documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#permissions).

```yaml wrap
# Specific permissions
permissions:
  issues: write
  contents: read
  pull-requests: write

# All permissions
permissions: write-all
permissions: read-all

# No permissions
permissions: {}
```

If you specify any permission, unspecified ones are set to `none`.

#### Permission Validation

The compiler validates workflows have sufficient permissions for their configured tools.

**Non-strict mode** (default): Emits warnings with suggestions to add missing permissions or reduce toolset requirements.

**Strict mode** (`gh aw compile --strict`): Treats under-provisioned permissions as compilation errors. Use for production workflows requiring enhanced security validation.

### Repository Access Roles (`roles:`)

Controls who can trigger agentic workflows based on repository permission level. Defaults to `[admin, maintainer, write]`.

```yaml wrap
roles: [admin, maintainer, write]  # Default
roles: all                         # Allow any user (⚠️ use with caution)
```

Available roles: `admin`, `maintainer`, `write`, `read`, `all`. Workflows with unsafe triggers (`push`, `issues`, `pull_request`) automatically enforce permission checks. Failed checks cancel the workflow with a warning.

### Strict Mode (`strict:`)

Enables enhanced security validation for production workflows. **Enabled by default**.

```yaml wrap
strict: true   # Enable (default)
strict: false  # Disable for development/testing
```

**Enforcement areas:**
1. Refuses write permissions (`contents:write`, `issues:write`, `pull-requests:write`) - use [safe-outputs](/gh-aw/reference/safe-outputs/) instead
2. Requires explicit [network configuration](/gh-aw/reference/network/)
3. Refuses wildcard `*` in `network.allowed` domains
4. Requires network config for custom MCP servers with containers
5. Enforces GitHub Actions pinned to commit SHAs
6. Refuses deprecated frontmatter fields

**Configuration:**
- **Frontmatter**: `strict: true/false` (per-workflow)
- **CLI flag**: `gh aw compile --strict` (all workflows, overrides frontmatter)

See [CLI Commands](/gh-aw/setup/cli/#compile) and [Security Guide](/gh-aw/guides/security/#strict-mode-validation) for details.

### Feature Flags (`features:`)

Enable experimental or optional features as boolean key-value pairs.

```yaml wrap
features:
  my-experimental-feature: true
```

:::note[Firewall Configuration]
The `features.firewall` field has been removed. Use `network.firewall` (deprecated) or preferably `sandbox.agent: false` to disable the firewall. See [Network Permissions](/gh-aw/reference/network/) and [Sandbox Configuration](/gh-aw/reference/sandbox/).
:::

### AI Engine (`engine:`)

Specifies which AI engine interprets the markdown section. See [AI Engines](/gh-aw/reference/engines/) for details.

```yaml wrap
engine: copilot
```

### Network Permissions (`network:`)

Controls network access using ecosystem identifiers and domain allowlists. See [Network Permissions](/gh-aw/reference/network/) for full documentation.

```yaml wrap
network:
  allowed:
    - defaults              # Basic infrastructure
    - python               # Python/PyPI ecosystem
    - "api.example.com"    # Custom domain
```

### Safe Inputs (`safe-inputs:`)

Enables defining custom MCP tools inline using JavaScript or shell scripts. See [Safe Inputs](/gh-aw/reference/safe-inputs/) for complete documentation on creating custom tools with controlled secret access.

### Safe Outputs (`safe-outputs:`)

Enables automatic issue creation, comment posting, and other safe outputs. See [Safe Outputs Processing](/gh-aw/reference/safe-outputs/).

### Run Configuration (`run-name:`, `runs-on:`, `timeout-minutes:`)

Standard GitHub Actions properties:
```yaml wrap
run-name: "Custom workflow run name"  # Defaults to workflow name
runs-on: ubuntu-latest               # Defaults to ubuntu-latest (main job only)
timeout-minutes: 30                  # Defaults to 20 minutes (timeout_minutes deprecated)
```

**Note**: The `timeout_minutes` field is deprecated. Use `timeout-minutes` instead to follow GitHub Actions naming convention.

### Workflow Concurrency Control (`concurrency:`)

Automatically generates concurrency policies for the agent job. See [Concurrency Control](/gh-aw/reference/concurrency/).

## Environment Variables (`env:`)

Standard GitHub Actions `env:` syntax for workflow-level environment variables:

```yaml wrap
env:
  CUSTOM_VAR: "value"
  SECRET_VAR: ${{ secrets.MY_SECRET }}
```

Environment variables can be defined at multiple scopes (workflow, job, step, engine, safe-outputs, etc.) with clear precedence rules. See [Environment Variables](/gh-aw/reference/environment-variables/) for complete documentation on all 13 env scopes and precedence order.

## Environment Protection (`environment:`)

Specifies the environment for deployment protection rules and environment-specific secrets. Standard GitHub Actions syntax.

```yaml wrap
environment: production
```

See [GitHub Actions environment docs](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/deployment/targeting-different-environments/using-environments-for-deployment).

## Container Configuration (`container:`)

Specifies a container to run job steps in.

```yaml wrap
container: node:18
```

See [GitHub Actions container docs](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/how-tos/write-workflows/choose-where-workflows-run/run-jobs-in-a-container).

## Service Containers (`services:`)

Defines service containers that run alongside your job (databases, caches, etc.).

```yaml wrap
services:
  postgres:
    image: postgres:13
    env:
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: postgres
    ports:
      - 5432:5432
```

See [GitHub Actions service docs](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-containerized-services).

## Conditional Execution (`if:`)

Standard GitHub Actions `if:` syntax:

```yaml wrap
if: github.event_name == 'push'
```

## Custom Steps (`steps:`)

Add custom steps before agentic execution. If unspecified, a default checkout step is added automatically.

```yaml wrap
steps:
  - name: Install dependencies
    run: npm ci
```

## Post-Execution Steps (`post-steps:`)

Add custom steps after agentic execution. Run after AI engine completes regardless of success/failure (unless conditional expressions are used).

```yaml wrap
post-steps:
  - name: Upload Results
    if: always()
    uses: actions/upload-artifact@v4
    with:
      name: workflow-results
      path: /tmp/gh-aw/
      retention-days: 7
```

Useful for artifact uploads, summaries, cleanup, or triggering downstream workflows.

## Custom Jobs (`jobs:`)

Define custom jobs that run before agentic execution. Supports complete GitHub Actions step specification.

```yaml wrap
jobs:
  super_linter:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v5
      - name: Run Super-Linter
        uses: super-linter/super-linter@v7
        env:
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
```

The agentic execution job waits for all custom jobs to complete. Custom jobs can share data through artifacts or job outputs.

### Job Outputs

Custom jobs can expose outputs accessible in the agentic execution prompt via `${{ needs.job-name.outputs.output-name }}`:

```yaml wrap
jobs:
  release:
    outputs:
      release_id: ${{ steps.get_release.outputs.release_id }}
      version: ${{ steps.get_release.outputs.version }}
    steps:
      - id: get_release
        run: echo "version=${{ github.event.release.tag_name }}" >> $GITHUB_OUTPUT
---

Generate highlights for release ${{ needs.release.outputs.version }}.
```

Job outputs must be string values.

## Cache Configuration (`cache:`)

Cache configuration using standard GitHub Actions `actions/cache` syntax:

Single cache:
```yaml wrap
cache:
  key: node-modules-${{ hashFiles('package-lock.json') }}
  path: node_modules
  restore-keys: |
    node-modules-
```

## Related Documentation

See also: [Trigger Events](/gh-aw/reference/triggers/), [AI Engines](/gh-aw/reference/engines/), [CLI Commands](/gh-aw/setup/cli/), [Workflow Structure](/gh-aw/reference/workflow-structure/), [Network Permissions](/gh-aw/reference/network/), [Command Triggers](/gh-aw/reference/command-triggers/), [MCPs](/gh-aw/guides/mcps/), [Tools](/gh-aw/reference/tools/), [Imports](/gh-aw/reference/imports/)

Commit message:

Add documentation for hybrid deterministic-agentic workflow patterns (#9356)

docs/src/content/docs/reference/frontmatter.md, after:

---
title: Frontmatter
description: Complete guide to all available frontmatter configuration options for GitHub Agentic Workflows, including triggers, permissions, AI engines, and workflow settings.
sidebar:
  order: 200
---

The [frontmatter](/gh-aw/reference/glossary/#frontmatter) (YAML configuration section between `---` markers) of GitHub Agentic Workflows includes the triggers, permissions, AI [engines](/gh-aw/reference/glossary/#engine) (which AI model/provider to use), and workflow settings. For example:

```yaml wrap
---
on:
  issues:
    types: [opened]

tools:
  edit:
  bash: ["gh issue comment"]
---
...markdown instructions...
```

## Frontmatter Elements

The frontmatter combines standard GitHub Actions properties (`on`, `permissions`, `run-name`, `runs-on`, `timeout-minutes`, `concurrency`, `env`, `environment`, `container`, `services`, `if`, `steps`, `cache`) with GitHub Agentic Workflows-specific elements (`description`, `source`, `github-token`, `imports`, `engine`, `strict`, `roles`, `features`, `safe-inputs`, `safe-outputs`, `network`, `tools`).

Tool configurations (such as `bash`, `edit`, `github`, `web-fetch`, `web-search`, `playwright`, `cache-memory`, and custom [Model Context Protocol](/gh-aw/reference/glossary/#mcp-model-context-protocol) (MCP) [servers](/gh-aw/reference/glossary/#mcp-server)) are specified under the `tools:` key. Custom inline tools can be defined with the [`safe-inputs:`](/gh-aw/reference/safe-inputs/) (custom tools defined inline) key. See [Tools](/gh-aw/reference/tools/) and [Safe Inputs](/gh-aw/reference/safe-inputs/) for complete documentation.

### Trigger Events (`on:`)

The `on:` section uses standard GitHub Actions syntax to define workflow triggers, with additional fields for security and approval controls:

- Standard GitHub Actions triggers (push, pull_request, issues, schedule, etc.)
- `reaction:` - Add emoji reactions to triggering items
- `stop-after:` - Automatically disable triggers after a deadline
- `manual-approval:` - Require manual approval using environment protection rules
- `forks:` - Configure fork filtering for pull_request triggers

See [Trigger Events](/gh-aw/reference/triggers/) for complete documentation.

### Description (`description:`)

Provides a human-readable description of the workflow rendered as a comment in the generated lock file.

```yaml wrap
description: "Workflow that analyzes pull requests and provides feedback"
```

### Source Tracking (`source:`)

Tracks workflow origin in format `owner/repo/path@ref`. Automatically populated when using `gh aw add` to install workflows from external repositories. Optional for manually created workflows.

```yaml wrap
source: "githubnext/agentics/workflows/ci-doctor.md@v1.0.0"
```

### Labels (`labels:`)

Optional array of strings for categorizing and organizing workflows. Labels are displayed in `gh aw status` command output and can be filtered using the `--label` flag.

```yaml wrap
labels: ["automation", "ci", "diagnostics"]
```

Labels help organize workflows by purpose, team, or functionality. They appear in status command table output as `[automation ci diagnostics]` and as a JSON array in `--json` mode. Filter workflows by label using `gh aw status --label automation`.

### Metadata (`metadata:`)

Optional key-value pairs for storing custom metadata compatible with the [GitHub Copilot custom agent spec](https://docs.github.com/en/copilot/reference/custom-agents-configuration).

```yaml wrap
metadata:
  author: John Doe
  version: 1.0.0
  category: automation
```

**Constraints:**
- Keys: 1-64 characters
- Values: Maximum 1024 characters
- Only string values are supported

Metadata provides a flexible way to add descriptive information to workflows without affecting execution.

### GitHub Token (`github-token:`)

Configures the default GitHub token for engine authentication, checkout steps, and safe-output operations.

```yaml wrap
github-token: ${{ secrets.CUSTOM_PAT }}
```

:::caution[Secret Expression Required]
Must use GitHub Actions secret expressions (e.g., `${{ secrets.CUSTOM_PAT }}`). Plaintext tokens are rejected. Valid: `${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}`, `${{ secrets.CUSTOM_PAT }}`. Invalid: plaintext tokens, environment variables.
:::

**Token precedence** (highest to lowest):
1. Individual safe-output `github-token` (e.g., `create-issue.github-token`)
2. Safe-outputs global `github-token`
3. Top-level `github-token`
4. Default: `${{ secrets.GH_AW_GITHUB_TOKEN || secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}`

See the [Security Guide](/gh-aw/guides/security/#authorization-and-token-management) for complete documentation.

### Permissions (`permissions:`)

The `permissions:` section uses standard GitHub Actions permissions syntax to specify the permissions relevant to the agentic (natural language) part of the execution of the workflow. See [GitHub Actions permissions documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#permissions).

```yaml wrap
# Specific permissions
permissions:
  issues: write
  contents: read
  pull-requests: write

# All permissions
permissions: write-all
permissions: read-all

# No permissions
permissions: {}
```

If you specify any permission, unspecified ones are set to `none`.

#### Permission Validation

The compiler validates workflows have sufficient permissions for their configured tools.

**Non-strict mode** (default): Emits warnings with suggestions to add missing permissions or reduce toolset requirements.

**Strict mode** (`gh aw compile --strict`): Treats under-provisioned permissions as compilation errors. Use for production workflows requiring enhanced security validation.

### Repository Access Roles (`roles:`)

Controls who can trigger agentic workflows based on repository permission level. Defaults to `[admin, maintainer, write]`.

```yaml wrap
roles: [admin, maintainer, write]  # Default
roles: all                         # Allow any user (⚠️ use with caution)
```

Available roles: `admin`, `maintainer`, `write`, `read`, `all`. Workflows with unsafe triggers (`push`, `issues`, `pull_request`) automatically enforce permission checks. Failed checks cancel the workflow with a warning.

### Strict Mode (`strict:`)

Enables enhanced security validation for production workflows. **Enabled by default**.

```yaml wrap
strict: true   # Enable (default)
strict: false  # Disable for development/testing
```

**Enforcement areas:**
1. Refuses write permissions (`contents:write`, `issues:write`, `pull-requests:write`) - use [safe-outputs](/gh-aw/reference/safe-outputs/) instead
2. Requires explicit [network configuration](/gh-aw/reference/network/)
3. Refuses wildcard `*` in `network.allowed` domains
4. Requires network config for custom MCP servers with containers
5. Enforces GitHub Actions pinned to commit SHAs
6. Refuses deprecated frontmatter fields

**Configuration:**
- **Frontmatter**: `strict: true/false` (per-workflow)
- **CLI flag**: `gh aw compile --strict` (all workflows, overrides frontmatter)

See [CLI Commands](/gh-aw/setup/cli/#compile) and [Security Guide](/gh-aw/guides/security/#strict-mode-validation) for details.

### Feature Flags (`features:`)

Enable experimental or optional features as boolean key-value pairs.

```yaml wrap
features:
  my-experimental-feature: true
```

:::note[Firewall Configuration]
The `features.firewall` field has been removed. Use `network.firewall` (deprecated) or preferably `sandbox.agent: false` to disable the firewall. See [Network Permissions](/gh-aw/reference/network/) and [Sandbox Configuration](/gh-aw/reference/sandbox/).
:::

### AI Engine (`engine:`)

Specifies which AI engine interprets the markdown section. See [AI Engines](/gh-aw/reference/engines/) for details.

```yaml wrap
engine: copilot
```

### Network Permissions (`network:`)

Controls network access using ecosystem identifiers and domain allowlists. See [Network Permissions](/gh-aw/reference/network/) for full documentation.

```yaml wrap
network:
  allowed:
    - defaults              # Basic infrastructure
    - python               # Python/PyPI ecosystem
    - "api.example.com"    # Custom domain
```

### Safe Inputs (`safe-inputs:`)

Enables defining custom MCP tools inline using JavaScript or shell scripts. See [Safe Inputs](/gh-aw/reference/safe-inputs/) for complete documentation on creating custom tools with controlled secret access.

### Safe Outputs (`safe-outputs:`)

Enables automatic issue creation, comment posting, and other safe outputs. See [Safe Outputs Processing](/gh-aw/reference/safe-outputs/).

### Run Configuration (`run-name:`, `runs-on:`, `timeout-minutes:`)

Standard GitHub Actions properties:
```yaml wrap
run-name: "Custom workflow run name"  # Defaults to workflow name
runs-on: ubuntu-latest               # Defaults to ubuntu-latest (main job only)
timeout-minutes: 30                  # Defaults to 20 minutes (timeout_minutes deprecated)
```

**Note**: The `timeout_minutes` field is deprecated. Use `timeout-minutes` instead to follow GitHub Actions naming convention.

### Workflow Concurrency Control (`concurrency:`)

Automatically generates concurrency policies for the agent job. See [Concurrency Control](/gh-aw/reference/concurrency/).

## Environment Variables (`env:`)

Standard GitHub Actions `env:` syntax for workflow-level environment variables:

```yaml wrap
env:
  CUSTOM_VAR: "value"
  SECRET_VAR: ${{ secrets.MY_SECRET }}
```

Environment variables can be defined at multiple scopes (workflow, job, step, engine, safe-outputs, etc.) with clear precedence rules. See [Environment Variables](/gh-aw/reference/environment-variables/) for complete documentation on all 13 env scopes and precedence order.

## Environment Protection (`environment:`)

Specifies the environment for deployment protection rules and environment-specific secrets. Standard GitHub Actions syntax.

```yaml wrap
environment: production
```

See [GitHub Actions environment docs](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/deployment/targeting-different-environments/using-environments-for-deployment).

## Container Configuration (`container:`)

Specifies a container to run job steps in.

```yaml wrap
container: node:18
```

See [GitHub Actions container docs](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/how-tos/write-workflows/choose-where-workflows-run/run-jobs-in-a-container).

## Service Containers (`services:`)

Defines service containers that run alongside your job (databases, caches, etc.).

```yaml wrap
services:
  postgres:
    image: postgres:13
    env:
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: postgres
    ports:
      - 5432:5432
```

See [GitHub Actions service docs](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-containerized-services).

## Conditional Execution (`if:`)

Standard GitHub Actions `if:` syntax:

```yaml wrap
if: github.event_name == 'push'
```

## Custom Steps (`steps:`)

Add custom steps before agentic execution. If unspecified, a default checkout step is added automatically.

```yaml wrap
steps:
  - name: Install dependencies
    run: npm ci
```

Use custom steps to precompute data, filter triggers, or prepare context for AI agents. See [Deterministic & Agentic Patterns](/gh-aw/guides/deterministic-agentic-patterns/) for combining computation with AI reasoning.

## Post-Execution Steps (`post-steps:`)

Add custom steps after agentic execution. Run after AI engine completes regardless of success/failure (unless conditional expressions are used).

```yaml wrap
post-steps:
  - name: Upload Results
    if: always()
    uses: actions/upload-artifact@v4
    with:
      name: workflow-results
      path: /tmp/gh-aw/
      retention-days: 7
```

Useful for artifact uploads, summaries, cleanup, or triggering downstream workflows.

## Custom Jobs (`jobs:`)

Define custom jobs that run before agentic execution. Supports complete GitHub Actions step specification.

```yaml wrap
jobs:
  super_linter:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v5
      - name: Run Super-Linter
        uses: super-linter/super-linter@v7
        env:
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
```

The agentic execution job waits for all custom jobs to complete. Custom jobs can share data through artifacts or job outputs. See [Deterministic & Agentic Patterns](/gh-aw/guides/deterministic-agentic-patterns/) for multi-job workflows.

### Job Outputs

Custom jobs can expose outputs accessible in the agentic execution prompt via `${{ needs.job-name.outputs.output-name }}`:

```yaml wrap
jobs:
  release:
    outputs:
      release_id: ${{ steps.get_release.outputs.release_id }}
      version: ${{ steps.get_release.outputs.version }}
    steps:
      - id: get_release
        run: echo "version=${{ github.event.release.tag_name }}" >> $GITHUB_OUTPUT
---

Generate highlights for release ${{ needs.release.outputs.version }}.
```

Job outputs must be string values.

## Cache Configuration (`cache:`)

Cache configuration using standard GitHub Actions `actions/cache` syntax:

Single cache:
```yaml wrap
cache:
  key: node-modules-${{ hashFiles('package-lock.json') }}
  path: node_modules
  restore-keys: |
    node-modules-
```

## Related Documentation

See also: [Trigger Events](/gh-aw/reference/triggers/), [AI Engines](/gh-aw/reference/engines/), [CLI Commands](/gh-aw/setup/cli/), [Workflow Structure](/gh-aw/reference/workflow-structure/), [Network Permissions](/gh-aw/reference/network/), [Command Triggers](/gh-aw/reference/command-triggers/), [MCPs](/gh-aw/guides/mcps/), [Tools](/gh-aw/reference/tools/), [Imports](/gh-aw/reference/imports/)
