docs/src/content/docs/examples/campaigns.md, before:

---
title: Campaign Examples
description: Example campaign workflows demonstrating worker orchestration and pattern analysis
sidebar:
  badge: { text: 'Examples', variant: 'note' }
---

This section contains example campaign workflows that demonstrate how to use campaign worker orchestration, workflow discovery, and the dispatch_workflow safe output.

## Security Audit Campaign

[**Security Audit 2026**](/gh-aw/examples/campaigns/security-auditcampaign/) - A comprehensive security audit campaign that demonstrates:

- **Worker Discovery**: Finding existing security-related workflows
- **Workflow Fusion**: Adapting workflows with `workflow_dispatch` triggers
- **Orchestration**: Using `dispatch_workflow` to coordinate multiple workers
- **KPI Tracking**: Measuring vulnerability reduction over time
- **Pattern Analysis**: Organizing workers in campaign-specific folders

### Key Features

- 3 worker workflows (scanner, updater, reporter)
- Governance policies for pacing and opt-out
- Quarterly timeline with weekly status updates
- Executive sponsorship and risk management

### Worker Example

[**Security Scanner**](/gh-aw/examples/campaigns/security-scanner/) - An example security scanner workflow that:

- Runs on a schedule (weekly)
- Creates issues for vulnerabilities
- Uses tracker-id for campaign discovery
- Can be dispatched by campaign orchestrators

## Using These Examples

### 1. Campaign Spec Structure

Campaign specs (`.campaign.md` files) define:
- Campaign goals and KPIs
- Worker workflows to orchestrate
- Memory paths for state persistence
- Governance and pacing policies

### 2. Worker Workflow Pattern

Worker workflows should:
- Include tracker-id in created issues/PRs
- Support workflow_dispatch for orchestration
- Focus on specific, repeatable tasks
- Be campaign-agnostic (reusable)

### 3. Folder Organization

```
docs/src/content/docs/examples/campaigns/
├── security-audit.campaign.md      # Campaign spec
└── security-scanner.md             # Example worker workflow

.github/workflows/campaigns/
└── security-audit-2026/            # Fused workers at runtime
    ├── security-scanner-worker.md
    └── ...
```

## Learn More

- [Campaign Guides](/gh-aw/guides/campaigns/) - Complete campaign documentation
- [Technical Overview](/gh-aw/guides/campaigns/technical-overview/) - How campaigns work
- [Dispatch Workflow](/gh-aw/guides/dispatchops/) - Using workflow_dispatch
- [Safe Outputs](/gh-aw/reference/safe-outputs/) - dispatch_workflow configuration

## Pattern Analysis

These examples are organized to enable future pattern analysis:
- Which workflows work best for security campaigns?
- What KPIs are most effective for different campaign types?
- How should workers be organized for optimal results?

The separate folder structure allows tracking and learning from campaign outcomes over time.

Commit message:

Add build phase warnings to campaign documentation (#10541)

docs/src/content/docs/examples/campaigns.md, after:

---
title: Campaign Examples
description: Example campaign workflows demonstrating worker orchestration and pattern analysis
sidebar:
  badge: { text: 'Examples', variant: 'note' }
---


> [!WARNING]
> **Please do not use at this time.** Campaigns are currently in build phase and not ready for production. This feature is under active development and may have breaking changes.

This section contains example campaign workflows that demonstrate how to use campaign worker orchestration, workflow discovery, and the dispatch_workflow safe output.

## Security Audit Campaign

[**Security Audit 2026**](/gh-aw/examples/campaigns/security-auditcampaign/) - A comprehensive security audit campaign that demonstrates:

- **Worker Discovery**: Finding existing security-related workflows
- **Workflow Fusion**: Adapting workflows with `workflow_dispatch` triggers
- **Orchestration**: Using `dispatch_workflow` to coordinate multiple workers
- **KPI Tracking**: Measuring vulnerability reduction over time
- **Pattern Analysis**: Organizing workers in campaign-specific folders

### Key Features

- 3 worker workflows (scanner, updater, reporter)
- Governance policies for pacing and opt-out
- Quarterly timeline with weekly status updates
- Executive sponsorship and risk management

### Worker Example

[**Security Scanner**](/gh-aw/examples/campaigns/security-scanner/) - An example security scanner workflow that:

- Runs on a schedule (weekly)
- Creates issues for vulnerabilities
- Uses tracker-id for campaign discovery
- Can be dispatched by campaign orchestrators

## Using These Examples

### 1. Campaign Spec Structure

Campaign specs (`.campaign.md` files) define:
- Campaign goals and KPIs
- Worker workflows to orchestrate
- Memory paths for state persistence
- Governance and pacing policies

### 2. Worker Workflow Pattern

Worker workflows should:
- Include tracker-id in created issues/PRs
- Support workflow_dispatch for orchestration
- Focus on specific, repeatable tasks
- Be campaign-agnostic (reusable)

### 3. Folder Organization

```
docs/src/content/docs/examples/campaigns/
├── security-audit.campaign.md      # Campaign spec
└── security-scanner.md             # Example worker workflow

.github/workflows/campaigns/
└── security-audit-2026/            # Fused workers at runtime
    ├── security-scanner-worker.md
    └── ...
```

## Learn More

- [Campaign Guides](/gh-aw/guides/campaigns/) - Complete campaign documentation
- [Technical Overview](/gh-aw/guides/campaigns/technical-overview/) - How campaigns work
- [Dispatch Workflow](/gh-aw/guides/dispatchops/) - Using workflow_dispatch
- [Safe Outputs](/gh-aw/reference/safe-outputs/) - dispatch_workflow configuration

## Pattern Analysis

These examples are organized to enable future pattern analysis:
- Which workflows work best for security campaigns?
- What KPIs are most effective for different campaign types?
- How should workers be organized for optimal results?

The separate folder structure allows tracking and learning from campaign outcomes over time.
