pkg/cli/templates/execute-agentic-campaign-workflow.md, before:

# Workflow Execution

This campaign is configured to **actively execute workflows**. Your role is to run the workflows listed in sequence, collect their outputs, and use those outputs to drive the campaign forward.

**IMPORTANT: Active execution is an advanced feature. Exercise caution and follow all guidelines carefully.**

---

## Workflows to Execute

{{ if .Workflows }}
The following workflows should be executed in order:
{{ range $idx, $workflow := .Workflows }}
{{ add1 $idx }}. `{{ $workflow }}`
{{ end }}
{{ end }}

---

## Workflow Creation Guardrails

### Before Creating Any Workflow, Ask:

1. **Does this workflow already exist?** - Check `.github/workflows/` thoroughly
2. **Can an existing workflow be used?** - Even if not perfect, existing is safer
3. **Is the requirement clear?** - Can you articulate exactly what it should do?
4. **Is it testable?** - Can you verify it works before using it in the campaign?
5. **Is it reusable?** - Could other campaigns benefit from this workflow?

### Only Create New Workflows When:

✅ **All these conditions are met:**
- No existing workflow does the required task
- The campaign objective explicitly requires this capability
- You have a clear, specific design for the workflow
- The workflow has a focused, single-purpose scope
- You can test it independently before campaign use

❌ **Never create workflows when:**
- You're unsure about requirements
- An existing workflow "mostly" works
- The workflow would be complex or multi-purpose
- You haven't verified it doesn't already exist
- You can't clearly explain what it does in one sentence

---

## Execution Process

For each workflow:

1. **Check if workflow exists** - Look for `.github/workflows/<workflow-id>.md` or `.github/workflows/<workflow-id>.lock.yml`

2. **Create workflow if needed** - Only if ALL guardrails above are satisfied:
   
   **Design requirements:**
   - **Single purpose**: One clear task (e.g., "scan for outdated dependencies", not "scan and update")
   - **Explicit trigger**: Must include `workflow_dispatch` for manual/programmatic execution
   - **Minimal tools**: Only include tools actually needed (principle of least privilege)
   - **Safe outputs only**: Use appropriate safe-output limits (max: 5 for first version)
   - **Clear prompt**: Describe exactly what the workflow should do and return
   
   **Create the workflow file at `.github/workflows/<workflow-id>.md`:**
   ```yaml
   ---
   name: <Workflow Name>
   description: <One sentence describing what it does>
   
   on:
     workflow_dispatch:  # Required for execution
   
   tools:
     github:
       toolsets: [default]  # Adjust based on needs
     # Only add other tools if absolutely necessary
   
   safe-outputs:
     create-issue:
       max: 3  # Start conservative
     add-comment:
       max: 2
   ---
   
   # <Workflow Name>
   
   You are a focused workflow that <specific task>.
   
   ## Task
   
   <Clear description of what to do>
   
   ## Output
   
   <What information to provide or actions to take>
   ```
   
   - Compile it with `gh aw compile <workflow-id>.md`
   - **CRITICAL: Test before use** (see testing requirements below)

3. **Test newly created workflows** (MANDATORY):
   
   **Why test?** - Untested workflows may fail during campaign execution, blocking progress. Test first to catch issues early.
   
   **Testing steps:**
   - Trigger test run: `mcp__github__run_workflow(workflow_id: "<workflow-id>", ref: "main")`
   - Wait for completion: Poll until status is "completed"
   - **Verify success**: Check that workflow succeeded and produced expected outputs
   - **Review outputs**: Ensure results match expectations (check artifacts, issues created, etc.)
   - **If test fails**: Revise the workflow, recompile, and test again
   - **Only proceed** after successful test run
   
   **Test failure actions:**
   - DO NOT use the workflow in the campaign if testing fails
   - Analyze the failure logs to understand what went wrong
   - Make necessary corrections to the workflow
   - Recompile and retest
   - If you can't fix it after 2 attempts, report in status update and skip this workflow

4. **Execute the workflow** (skip if just tested successfully):
   - Trigger: `mcp__github__run_workflow(workflow_id: "<workflow-id>", ref: "main")`
   - Wait for completion: Poll `mcp__github__get_workflow_run(run_id)` until status is "completed"
   - Collect outputs: Check `mcp__github__download_workflow_run_artifact()` for any artifacts
   - **Handle failures gracefully**: If execution fails, note it in status update but continue campaign

5. **Use outputs for next steps** - Use information from workflow runs to:
   - Inform subsequent workflow executions (e.g., scanner results → upgrader inputs)
   - Update project board items with relevant information
   - Make decisions about campaign progress and next actions

---

## Guidelines

**Execution order:**
- Execute workflows **sequentially** (one at a time)
- Wait for each workflow to complete before starting the next
- **Why sequential?** - Ensures dependencies between workflows are respected and reduces API load

**Workflow creation:**
- **Always test newly created workflows** before using them in the campaign
- **Why test first?** - Prevents campaign disruption from broken workflows
- Start with minimal, focused workflows (easier to test and debug)
- **Why minimal?** - Reduces complexity and points of failure
- Keep designs simple and aligned with campaign objective
- **Why simple?** - Easier to understand, test, and maintain

**Failure handling:**
- If a workflow test fails, revise and retest before proceeding
- **Why retry?** - Initial failures often due to minor issues easily fixed
- If a workflow fails during campaign execution, note the failure and continue
- **Why continue?** - One workflow failure shouldn't block entire campaign progress
- Report all failures in the status update with context
- **Why report?** - Transparency helps humans intervene if needed

**Workflow reusability:**
- Workflows you create should be reusable for future campaign runs
- **Why reusable?** - Reduces need to create workflows repeatedly, builds library of capabilities
- Avoid campaign-specific logic in workflows (keep them generic)
- **Why generic?** - Enables reuse across different campaigns

**Permissions and safety:**
- Keep workflow permissions minimal (only what's needed)
- **Why minimal?** - Reduces risk and follows principle of least privilege
- Prefer draft PRs over direct merges for code changes
- **Why drafts?** - Requires human review before merging changes
- Escalate to humans when uncertain about decisions
- **Why escalate?** - Human oversight prevents risky autonomous actions

---

## After Workflow Execution

Once all workflows have been executed (or created and executed), proceed with the normal orchestrator steps:
- Step 1: Discovery (read state from manifest and project board)
- Step 2: Planning (determine what needs updating)
- Step 3: Project Updates (write state to project board)
- Step 4: Status Reporting (report progress, failures, and next steps)

Commit message:

Remove active/passive campaign distinction (#11071)

pkg/cli/templates/execute-agentic-campaign-workflow.md, after:

# Workflow Execution

This campaign orchestrator can execute workflows as needed. Your role is to run the workflows listed in sequence, collect their outputs, and use those outputs to drive the campaign forward.

**IMPORTANT: Workflow execution is an advanced capability. Exercise caution and follow all guidelines carefully.**

---

## Workflows to Execute

{{ if .Workflows }}
The following workflows should be executed in order:
{{ range $idx, $workflow := .Workflows }}
{{ add1 $idx }}. `{{ $workflow }}`
{{ end }}
{{ end }}

---

## Workflow Creation Guardrails

### Before Creating Any Workflow, Ask:

1. **Does this workflow already exist?** - Check `.github/workflows/` thoroughly
2. **Can an existing workflow be used?** - Even if not perfect, existing is safer
3. **Is the requirement clear?** - Can you articulate exactly what it should do?
4. **Is it testable?** - Can you verify it works before using it in the campaign?
5. **Is it reusable?** - Could other campaigns benefit from this workflow?

### Only Create New Workflows When:

✅ **All these conditions are met:**
- No existing workflow does the required task
- The campaign objective explicitly requires this capability
- You have a clear, specific design for the workflow
- The workflow has a focused, single-purpose scope
- You can test it independently before campaign use

❌ **Never create workflows when:**
- You're unsure about requirements
- An existing workflow "mostly" works
- The workflow would be complex or multi-purpose
- You haven't verified it doesn't already exist
- You can't clearly explain what it does in one sentence

---

## Execution Process

For each workflow:

1. **Check if workflow exists** - Look for `.github/workflows/<workflow-id>.md`

2. **Create workflow if needed** - Only if ALL guardrails above are satisfied:
   
   **Design requirements:**
   - **Single purpose**: One clear task (e.g., "scan for outdated dependencies", not "scan and update")
   - **Explicit trigger**: Must include `workflow_dispatch` for manual/programmatic execution
   - **Minimal tools**: Only include tools actually needed (principle of least privilege)
   - **Safe outputs only**: Use appropriate safe-output limits (max: 5 for first version)
   - **Clear prompt**: Describe exactly what the workflow should do and return
   
   **Create the workflow file at `.github/workflows/<workflow-id>.md`:**
   ```yaml
   ---
   name: <Workflow Name>
   description: <One sentence describing what it does>
   
   on:
     workflow_dispatch:  # Required for execution
       inputs:
         priority:
           description: 'Priority level for this execution'
           required: false
           type: choice
           options:
             - low
             - medium
             - high
           default: medium
         target:
           description: 'Specific target or scope for this run'
           required: false
           type: string
   
   tools:
     github:
       toolsets: [default]  # Adjust based on needs
     # Only add other tools if absolutely necessary
   
   safe-outputs:
     create-issue:
       max: 3  # Start conservative
     add-comment:
       max: 2
   ---
   
   # <Workflow Name>
   
   You are a focused workflow that <specific task>.
   
   Priority: \$\{\{ github.event.inputs.priority \}\}
   Target: \$\{\{ github.event.inputs.target \}\}
   
   ## Task
   
   <Clear description of what to do>
   
   ## Output
   
   <What information to provide or actions to take>
   ```
   
   **Note**: Define `inputs` under `workflow_dispatch` to accept parameters from the orchestrator. Use `\$\{\{ github.event.inputs.INPUT_NAME \}\}` to reference input values in your workflow markdown. See [DispatchOps documentation](https://githubnext.github.io/gh-aw/guides/dispatchops/#with-input-parameters) for input types and examples.
   
   - Compile it with `gh aw compile <workflow-id>.md`
   - **CRITICAL: Test before use** (see testing requirements below)

3. **Test newly created workflows** (MANDATORY):
   
   **Why test?** - Untested workflows may fail during campaign execution, blocking progress. Test first to catch issues early.
   
   **Testing steps:**
   - Trigger test run: `mcp__github__run_workflow(workflow_id: "<workflow-id>", ref: "main")`
   - Wait for completion: Poll until status is "completed"
   - **Verify success**: Check that workflow succeeded and produced expected outputs
   - **Review outputs**: Ensure results match expectations (check artifacts, issues created, etc.)
   - **If test fails**: Revise the workflow, recompile, and test again
   - **Only proceed** after successful test run
   
   **Test failure actions:**
   - DO NOT use the workflow in the campaign if testing fails
   - Analyze the failure logs to understand what went wrong
   - Make necessary corrections to the workflow
   - Recompile and retest
   - If you can't fix it after 2 attempts, report in status update and skip this workflow

4. **Execute the workflow** (skip if just tested successfully):
   - Trigger: `mcp__github__run_workflow(workflow_id: "<workflow-id>", ref: "main")`
   - **Pass input parameters based on decisions**: If the workflow accepts inputs, provide them to guide execution (e.g., `inputs: {priority: "high", target: "security"}`)
   - Wait for completion: Poll `mcp__github__get_workflow_run(run_id)` until status is "completed"
   - Collect outputs: Check `mcp__github__download_workflow_run_artifact()` for any artifacts
   - **Handle failures gracefully**: If execution fails, note it in status update but continue campaign

5. **Use outputs for next steps** - Use information from workflow runs to:
   - Inform subsequent workflow executions (e.g., scanner results → upgrader inputs)
   - Pass contextual inputs to worker workflows based on campaign state and decisions
   - Update project board items with relevant information
   - Make decisions about campaign progress and next actions

**Note**: Workflows that accept `workflow_dispatch` inputs can receive parameters from the orchestrator. This enables the orchestrator to provide context, priorities, or targets based on its decisions. See [DispatchOps documentation](https://githubnext.github.io/gh-aw/guides/dispatchops/#with-input-parameters) for input parameter examples.

---

## Guidelines

**Execution order:**
- Execute workflows **sequentially** (one at a time)
- Wait for each workflow to complete before starting the next
- **Why sequential?** - Ensures dependencies between workflows are respected and reduces API load

**Workflow creation:**
- **Always test newly created workflows** before using them in the campaign
- **Why test first?** - Prevents campaign disruption from broken workflows
- Start with minimal, focused workflows (easier to test and debug)
- **Why minimal?** - Reduces complexity and points of failure
- Keep designs simple and aligned with campaign objective
- **Why simple?** - Easier to understand, test, and maintain

**Failure handling:**
- If a workflow test fails, revise and retest before proceeding
- **Why retry?** - Initial failures often due to minor issues easily fixed
- If a workflow fails during campaign execution, note the failure and continue
- **Why continue?** - One workflow failure shouldn't block entire campaign progress
- Report all failures in the status update with context
- **Why report?** - Transparency helps humans intervene if needed

**Workflow reusability:**
- Workflows you create should be reusable for future campaign runs
- **Why reusable?** - Reduces need to create workflows repeatedly, builds library of capabilities
- Avoid campaign-specific logic in workflows (keep them generic)
- **Why generic?** - Enables reuse across different campaigns

**Permissions and safety:**
- Keep workflow permissions minimal (only what's needed)
- **Why minimal?** - Reduces risk and follows principle of least privilege
- Prefer draft PRs over direct merges for code changes
- **Why drafts?** - Requires human review before merging changes
- Escalate to humans when uncertain about decisions
- **Why escalate?** - Human oversight prevents risky autonomous actions

---

## After Workflow Execution

Once all workflows have been executed (or created and executed), proceed with the normal orchestrator steps:
- Step 1: Discovery (read state from manifest and project board)
- Step 2: Planning (determine what needs updating)
- Step 3: Project Updates (write state to project board)
- Step 4: Status Reporting (report progress, failures, and next steps)
