docs/src/content/docs/blog/2026-01-13-meet-the-workflows-documentation.md, before:

---
title: "Meet the Workflows: Documentation & Content"
description: "A curated tour of workflows that maintain high-quality documentation"
authors:
  - dsyme
  - pelikhan
  - mnkiefer
date: 2026-01-13T03:00:00
sidebar:
  label: "Documentation & Content"
prev:
  link: /gh-aw/blog/2026-01-13-meet-the-workflows-code-quality/
  label: "Code Quality & Refactoring Workflows"
next:
  link: /gh-aw/blog/2026-01-13-meet-the-workflows-issue-management/
  label: "Issue & PR Management Workflows"
---

<img src="/gh-aw/peli.png" alt="Peli de Halleux" width="200" style="float: right; margin: 0 0 20px 20px; border-radius: 8px;" />

Step right up, step right up, and enter the *documentation chamber* of [Peli's Agent Factory](/gh-aw/blog/2026-01-12-welcome-to-pelis-agent-factory/)! Pure imagination meets technical accuracy in this most delightful corner of our establishment!

In our [previous post](/gh-aw/blog/2026-01-13-meet-the-workflows-code-quality/), we explored code quality and refactoring workflows - agents that continuously push our codebase toward better design, finding patterns and improvements that humans often miss. These workflows never take a day off, quietly working to make our code cleaner and more maintainable.

Now let's address one of software development's eternal challenges: keeping documentation accurate and up-to-date. Code evolves rapidly; docs... not so much. Terminology drifts, API examples become outdated, slide decks grow stale, and blog posts reference deprecated features. The question isn't "can AI agents write good documentation?" but rather "can they maintain it as code changes?" Documentation and content workflows challenge conventional wisdom about AI-generated technical content. Spoiler: the answer involves human review, but it's way better than the alternative (no docs at all).

## Documentation & Content Workflows

These agents maintain high-quality documentation and content:

- **[Daily Documentation Updater](https://github.com/githubnext/gh-aw/tree/bb7946527af340043f1ebb31fc21bd491dd0f42d/.github/workflows/daily-doc-updater.md?plain=1)** - Reviews and updates documentation to ensure accuracy and completeness  
- **[Glossary Maintainer](https://github.com/githubnext/gh-aw/tree/bb7946527af340043f1ebb31fc21bd491dd0f42d/.github/workflows/glossary-maintainer.md?plain=1)** - Keeps glossary synchronized with codebase  
- **[Documentation Unbloat](https://github.com/githubnext/gh-aw/tree/bb7946527af340043f1ebb31fc21bd491dd0f42d/.github/workflows/unbloat-docs.md?plain=1)** - Reviews and simplifies documentation by reducing verbosity  
- **[Documentation Noob Tester](https://github.com/githubnext/gh-aw/tree/bb7946527af340043f1ebb31fc21bd491dd0f42d/.github/workflows/docs-noob-tester.md?plain=1)** - Tests documentation as a new user would, identifying confusing steps  
- **[Slide Deck Maintainer](https://github.com/githubnext/gh-aw/tree/bb7946527af340043f1ebb31fc21bd491dd0f42d/.github/workflows/slide-deck-maintainer.md?plain=1)** - Maintains presentation slide decks  
- **[Multi-device Docs Tester](https://github.com/githubnext/gh-aw/tree/bb7946527af340043f1ebb31fc21bd491dd0f42d/.github/workflows/daily-multi-device-docs-tester.md?plain=1)** - Tests documentation site across mobile, tablet, and desktop devices  
- **[Blog Auditor](https://github.com/githubnext/gh-aw/tree/bb7946527af340043f1ebb31fc21bd491dd0f42d/.github/workflows/blog-auditor.md?plain=1)** - Verifies blog posts are accessible and contain expected content  
  
Documentation is where we challenged conventional wisdom. Can AI agents write *good* documentation?

The **Technical Doc Writer** generates API docs from code, but more importantly, it *maintains* them - updating docs when code changes. The Glossary Maintainer caught terminology drift ("we're using three different terms for the same concept").

The **Slide Deck Maintainer** keeps our presentation materials current without manual updates.

The **Multi-device Docs Tester** uses Playwright to verify our documentation site works across phones, tablets, and desktops - testing responsive layouts, accessibility, and interactive elements. It catches visual regressions and layout issues that only appear on specific screen sizes.

The **Blog Auditor** ensures our blog posts stay accurate as the codebase evolves - it flags outdated code examples and broken links.

AI-generated docs need human/agent review, but they're dramatically better than *no* docs (which is often the alternative). Validation can be automated to a large extent, freeing writers to focus on content shaping, topic, clarity, tone, and accuracy.

In this collection of agents, we took a heterogeneous approach - some workflows generate content, others maintain it, and still others validate it. Other approaches are possible - all tasks can be rolled into a single agent. We found that it's easier to explore the space by using multiple agents, to separate concerns, and that encouraged us to use agents for other communication outputs such as blogs and slides.

## Learn More

- **[GitHub Agentic Workflows](https://githubnext.github.io/gh-aw/)** - The technology behind the workflows
- **[Quick Start](https://githubnext.github.io/gh-aw/setup/quick-start/)** - How to write and compile workflows

## Next Up: Issue & PR Management Workflows

Beyond writing code and docs, we need to manage the flow of issues and pull requests. How do we keep collaboration smooth and efficient?

Continue reading: [Issue & PR Management Workflows →](/gh-aw/blog/2026-01-13-meet-the-workflows-issue-management/)

---

*This is part 3 of a 16-part series exploring the workflows in Peli's Agent Factory.*

Commit message:

improve the docs and split the big one

docs/src/content/docs/blog/2026-01-13-meet-the-workflows-documentation.md, after:

---
title: "Meet the Workflows: Documentation & Content"
description: "A curated tour of workflows that maintain high-quality documentation"
authors:
  - dsyme
  - pelikhan
  - mnkiefer
date: 2026-01-13T03:00:00
sidebar:
  label: "Documentation & Content"
prev:
  link: /gh-aw/blog/2026-01-13-meet-the-workflows-continuous-improvement/
  label: "Continuous Improvement Workflows"
next:
  link: /gh-aw/blog/2026-01-13-meet-the-workflows-issue-management/
  label: "Issue & PR Management Workflows"
---

<img src="/gh-aw/peli.png" alt="Peli de Halleux" width="200" style="float: right; margin: 0 0 20px 20px; border-radius: 8px;" />

Step right up, step right up, and enter the *documentation chamber* of [Peli's Agent Factory](/gh-aw/blog/2026-01-12-welcome-to-pelis-agent-factory/)! Pure imagination meets technical accuracy in this most delightful corner of our establishment!

In our [previous posts](/gh-aw/blog/2026-01-13-meet-the-workflows-continuous-simplicity/), we explored autonomous cleanup agents - workflows that continuously improve code quality by simplifying complexity, refactoring structure, polishing style, and maintaining overall repository health. These agents never take a day off, quietly working to make our codebase better.

Now let's address one of software development's eternal challenges: keeping documentation accurate and up-to-date. Code evolves rapidly; docs... not so much. Terminology drifts, API examples become outdated, slide decks grow stale, and blog posts reference deprecated features. The question isn't "can AI agents write good documentation?" but rather "can they maintain it as code changes?" Documentation and content workflows challenge conventional wisdom about AI-generated technical content. Spoiler: the answer involves human review, but it's way better than the alternative (no docs at all).

## Documentation & Content Workflows

These agents maintain high-quality documentation and content:

- **[Daily Documentation Updater](https://github.com/githubnext/gh-aw/tree/bb7946527af340043f1ebb31fc21bd491dd0f42d/.github/workflows/daily-doc-updater.md?plain=1)** - Reviews and updates documentation to ensure accuracy and completeness  
- **[Glossary Maintainer](https://github.com/githubnext/gh-aw/tree/bb7946527af340043f1ebb31fc21bd491dd0f42d/.github/workflows/glossary-maintainer.md?plain=1)** - Keeps glossary synchronized with codebase  
- **[Documentation Unbloat](https://github.com/githubnext/gh-aw/tree/bb7946527af340043f1ebb31fc21bd491dd0f42d/.github/workflows/unbloat-docs.md?plain=1)** - Reviews and simplifies documentation by reducing verbosity  
- **[Documentation Noob Tester](https://github.com/githubnext/gh-aw/tree/bb7946527af340043f1ebb31fc21bd491dd0f42d/.github/workflows/docs-noob-tester.md?plain=1)** - Tests documentation as a new user would, identifying confusing steps  
- **[Slide Deck Maintainer](https://github.com/githubnext/gh-aw/tree/bb7946527af340043f1ebb31fc21bd491dd0f42d/.github/workflows/slide-deck-maintainer.md?plain=1)** - Maintains presentation slide decks  
- **[Multi-device Docs Tester](https://github.com/githubnext/gh-aw/tree/bb7946527af340043f1ebb31fc21bd491dd0f42d/.github/workflows/daily-multi-device-docs-tester.md?plain=1)** - Tests documentation site across mobile, tablet, and desktop devices  
- **[Blog Auditor](https://github.com/githubnext/gh-aw/tree/bb7946527af340043f1ebb31fc21bd491dd0f42d/.github/workflows/blog-auditor.md?plain=1)** - Verifies blog posts are accessible and contain expected content  
  
Documentation is where we challenged conventional wisdom. Can AI agents write *good* documentation?

The **Technical Doc Writer** generates API docs from code, but more importantly, it *maintains* them - updating docs when code changes. The Glossary Maintainer caught terminology drift ("we're using three different terms for the same concept").

The **Slide Deck Maintainer** keeps our presentation materials current without manual updates.

The **Multi-device Docs Tester** uses Playwright to verify our documentation site works across phones, tablets, and desktops - testing responsive layouts, accessibility, and interactive elements. It catches visual regressions and layout issues that only appear on specific screen sizes.

The **Blog Auditor** ensures our blog posts stay accurate as the codebase evolves - it flags outdated code examples and broken links.

AI-generated docs need human/agent review, but they're dramatically better than *no* docs (which is often the alternative). Validation can be automated to a large extent, freeing writers to focus on content shaping, topic, clarity, tone, and accuracy.

In this collection of agents, we took a heterogeneous approach - some workflows generate content, others maintain it, and still others validate it. Other approaches are possible - all tasks can be rolled into a single agent. We found that it's easier to explore the space by using multiple agents, to separate concerns, and that encouraged us to use agents for other communication outputs such as blogs and slides.

## Learn More

- **[GitHub Agentic Workflows](https://githubnext.github.io/gh-aw/)** - The technology behind the workflows
- **[Quick Start](https://githubnext.github.io/gh-aw/setup/quick-start/)** - How to write and compile workflows

## Next Up: Issue & PR Management Workflows

Beyond writing code and docs, we need to manage the flow of issues and pull requests. How do we keep collaboration smooth and efficient?

Continue reading: [Issue & PR Management Workflows →](/gh-aw/blog/2026-01-13-meet-the-workflows-issue-management/)

---

*This is part 6 of a 19-part series exploring the workflows in Peli's Agent Factory.*
