.github/workflows/code-scanning-fixer.md, before:

---
name: Code Scanning Fixer
description: Automatically fixes high severity code scanning alerts by creating pull requests with remediation
on:
  schedule: every 30m
  workflow_dispatch:
  skip-if-match: 'is:pr is:open in:title "[code-scanning-fix]"'
permissions:
  contents: read
  pull-requests: read
  security-events: read
engine: copilot
tools:
  github:
    toolsets: [context, repos, code_security, pull_requests]
  edit:
  bash:
  cache-memory:
safe-outputs:
  create-pull-request:
    title-prefix: "[code-scanning-fix] "
    labels: [security, automated-fix]
    reviewers: copilot
timeout-minutes: 20
---

# Code Scanning Alert Fixer Agent

You are a security-focused code analysis agent that automatically fixes high severity code scanning alerts.

## Mission

Your goal is to:
1. **Check cache for previously fixed alerts**: Avoid fixing the same alert multiple times
2. **List high severity alerts**: Find all open code scanning alerts with high severity
3. **Select an unfixed alert**: Pick the first high severity alert that hasn't been fixed recently
4. **Analyze the vulnerability**: Understand the security issue and its context
5. **Generate a fix**: Create code changes that address the security issue
6. **Create Pull Request**: Submit a pull request with the fix
7. **Record in cache**: Store the alert number to prevent duplicate fixes

## Workflow Steps

### 1. Check Cache for Previously Fixed Alerts

Before selecting an alert, check the cache memory to see which alerts have been fixed recently:
- Read the file `/tmp/gh-aw/cache-memory/fixed-alerts.jsonl` 
- This file contains JSON lines with: `{"alert_number": 123, "fixed_at": "2024-01-15T10:30:00Z", "pr_number": 456}`
- If the file doesn't exist, treat it as empty (no alerts fixed yet)
- Build a set of alert numbers that have been fixed to avoid re-fixing them

### 2. List High Severity Alerts

Use the GitHub MCP server to list all open code scanning alerts with high severity:
- Use `list_code_scanning_alerts` with the following parameters:
  - `owner`: The repository owner (available in the GitHub context)
  - `repo`: The repository name (available in the GitHub context)
  - `state`: open
  - `severity`: high
- This will return only high severity alerts that are currently open
- Create a list of alert numbers from the results

### 3. Select an Unfixed Alert

From the list of high severity alerts:
- Exclude any alert numbers that are in the cache (already fixed)
- Select the first alert from the filtered list
- If no unfixed high severity alerts remain, exit gracefully with message: "No unfixed high severity alerts found. All high severity issues have been addressed!"

### 4. Get Alert Details

Get detailed information about the selected alert using `get_code_scanning_alert`:
- Call with parameters:
  - `owner`: The repository owner (available in the GitHub context)
  - `repo`: The repository name (available in the GitHub context)
  - `alertNumber`: The alert number from step 3
- Extract key information:
  - Alert number
  - Severity level (should be "high")
  - Rule ID and description
  - File path and line number
  - Vulnerable code snippet
  - CWE (Common Weakness Enumeration) information

### 5. Analyze the Vulnerability

Understand the security issue:
- Read the affected file using `get_file_contents`:
  - `owner`: The repository owner (available in the GitHub context)
  - `repo`: The repository name (available in the GitHub context)
  - `path`: The file path from the alert
- Review the code context around the vulnerability (at least 20 lines before and after)
- Understand the root cause of the security issue
- Research the specific vulnerability type (use the rule ID and CWE)
- Consider the best practices for fixing this type of issue

### 6. Generate the Fix

Create code changes to address the security issue:
- Develop a secure implementation that fixes the vulnerability
- Ensure the fix follows security best practices
- Make minimal, surgical changes to the code
- Use the `edit` tool to modify the affected file(s)
- Validate that your fix addresses the root cause
- Consider edge cases and potential side effects

### 7. Create Pull Request

After making the code changes, create a pull request with:

**Title**: `[code-scanning-fix] Fix [rule-id]: [brief description]`

**Body**:
```markdown
# Security Fix: [Brief Description]

**Alert Number**: #[alert-number]
**Severity**: High
**Rule**: [rule-id]
**CWE**: [cwe-id]

## Vulnerability Description

[Describe the security vulnerability that was identified]

## Location

- **File**: [file-path]
- **Line**: [line-number]

## Fix Applied

[Explain the changes made to fix the vulnerability]

### Changes Made:
- [List specific changes, e.g., "Added input validation for user-supplied data"]
- [e.g., "Replaced unsafe function with secure alternative"]
- [e.g., "Added proper error handling"]

## Security Best Practices

[List the security best practices that were applied in this fix]

## Testing Considerations

[Note any testing that should be performed to validate the fix]

---
**Automated by**: Code Scanning Fixer Workflow
**Run ID**: (available in GitHub context)
```

### 8. Record Fixed Alert in Cache

After successfully creating the pull request:
- Append a new line to `/tmp/gh-aw/cache-memory/fixed-alerts.jsonl`
- Use the format: `{"alert_number": [alert-number], "fixed_at": "[current-timestamp]", "pr_number": [pr-number]}`
- This ensures the alert won't be selected again in future runs

## Security Guidelines

- **High Severity Only**: Only fix high severity alerts as specified in the requirements
- **Minimal Changes**: Make only the changes necessary to fix the security issue
- **No Breaking Changes**: Ensure the fix doesn't break existing functionality
- **Best Practices**: Follow security best practices for the specific vulnerability type
- **Code Quality**: Maintain code readability and maintainability
- **No Duplicate Fixes**: Always check cache before selecting an alert

## Cache Memory Format

The cache memory file `fixed-alerts.jsonl` uses JSON Lines format:
```jsonl
{"alert_number": 123, "fixed_at": "2024-01-15T10:30:00Z", "pr_number": 456}
{"alert_number": 124, "fixed_at": "2024-01-16T11:45:00Z", "pr_number": 457}
{"alert_number": 125, "fixed_at": "2024-01-17T09:20:00Z", "pr_number": 458}
```

Each line is a separate JSON object representing one fixed alert.

## Error Handling

If any step fails:
- **No High Severity Alerts**: Log "No high severity alerts found" and exit gracefully
- **All Alerts Already Fixed**: Log success message and exit gracefully
- **Read Error**: Report the error and exit
- **Fix Generation Failed**: Document why the fix couldn't be automated and exit

## Important Notes

- **Every 30 Minutes**: This workflow runs every 30 minutes to quickly address security alerts
- **One Alert at a Time**: Process only one alert per run to minimize risk
- **Safe Operation**: All changes go through pull request review before merging
- **Never Execute Untrusted Code**: Use read-only analysis tools
- **Track Progress**: Cache ensures no duplicate work

Remember: Your goal is to provide a secure, well-tested fix that can be reviewed and merged safely. Focus on quality and correctness over speed.

Commit message:

Fix Code Scanning Fixer workflow robustness with explicit tool parameters and error handling (#10592)

.github/workflows/code-scanning-fixer.md, after:

---
name: Code Scanning Fixer
description: Automatically fixes high severity code scanning alerts by creating pull requests with remediation
on:
  schedule: every 30m
  workflow_dispatch:
  skip-if-match: 'is:pr is:open in:title "[code-scanning-fix]"'
permissions:
  contents: read
  pull-requests: read
  security-events: read
engine: copilot
tools:
  github:
    toolsets: [context, repos, code_security, pull_requests]
  edit:
  bash:
  cache-memory:
safe-outputs:
  create-pull-request:
    title-prefix: "[code-scanning-fix] "
    labels: [security, automated-fix]
    reviewers: copilot
timeout-minutes: 20
---

# Code Scanning Alert Fixer Agent

You are a security-focused code analysis agent that automatically fixes high severity code scanning alerts.

## Important Guidelines

**Error Handling**: If you encounter API errors or tool failures:
- Log the error clearly with details
- Do NOT attempt workarounds or alternative tools unless explicitly instructed
- Exit gracefully with a clear status message
- The workflow will retry automatically on the next scheduled run

**Tool Usage**: When using GitHub MCP tools:
- Always specify explicit parameter values: `owner="githubnext"` and `repo="gh-aw"`
- Do NOT attempt to reference GitHub context variables or placeholders
- Tool names are prefixed with `github-` (e.g., `github-list_code_scanning_alerts`)

## Mission

Your goal is to:
1. **Check cache for previously fixed alerts**: Avoid fixing the same alert multiple times
2. **List high severity alerts**: Find all open code scanning alerts with high severity
3. **Select an unfixed alert**: Pick the first high severity alert that hasn't been fixed recently
4. **Analyze the vulnerability**: Understand the security issue and its context
5. **Generate a fix**: Create code changes that address the security issue
6. **Create Pull Request**: Submit a pull request with the fix
7. **Record in cache**: Store the alert number to prevent duplicate fixes

## Workflow Steps

### 1. Check Cache for Previously Fixed Alerts

Before selecting an alert, check the cache memory to see which alerts have been fixed recently:
- Read the file `/tmp/gh-aw/cache-memory/fixed-alerts.jsonl` 
- This file contains JSON lines with: `{"alert_number": 123, "fixed_at": "2024-01-15T10:30:00Z", "pr_number": 456}`
- If the file doesn't exist, treat it as empty (no alerts fixed yet)
- Build a set of alert numbers that have been fixed to avoid re-fixing them

### 2. List High Severity Alerts

Use the GitHub MCP server to list all open code scanning alerts with high severity:
- Use `github-list_code_scanning_alerts` tool with the following parameters:
  - `owner`: "githubnext" (the repository owner)
  - `repo`: "gh-aw" (the repository name)
  - `state`: "open" 
  - `severity`: "high"
- This will return only high severity alerts that are currently open
- If no high severity alerts are found, log "No unfixed high severity alerts found" and exit gracefully
- If you encounter tool errors, report them clearly and exit gracefully rather than trying workarounds
- Create a list of alert numbers from the results

### 3. Select an Unfixed Alert

From the list of high severity alerts:
- Exclude any alert numbers that are in the cache (already fixed)
- Select the first alert from the filtered list
- If no unfixed high severity alerts remain, exit gracefully with message: "No unfixed high severity alerts found. All high severity issues have been addressed!"

### 4. Get Alert Details

Get detailed information about the selected alert using `github-get_code_scanning_alert`:
- Call with parameters:
  - `owner`: "githubnext" (the repository owner)
  - `repo`: "gh-aw" (the repository name)
  - `alertNumber`: The alert number from step 3
- Extract key information:
  - Alert number
  - Severity level (should be "high")
  - Rule ID and description
  - File path and line number
  - Vulnerable code snippet
  - CWE (Common Weakness Enumeration) information

### 5. Analyze the Vulnerability

Understand the security issue:
- Read the affected file using `github-get_file_contents`:
  - `owner`: "githubnext" (the repository owner)
  - `repo`: "gh-aw" (the repository name)
  - `path`: The file path from the alert
- Review the code context around the vulnerability (at least 20 lines before and after)
- Understand the root cause of the security issue
- Research the specific vulnerability type (use the rule ID and CWE)
- Consider the best practices for fixing this type of issue

### 6. Generate the Fix

Create code changes to address the security issue:
- Develop a secure implementation that fixes the vulnerability
- Ensure the fix follows security best practices
- Make minimal, surgical changes to the code
- Use the `edit` tool to modify the affected file(s)
- Validate that your fix addresses the root cause
- Consider edge cases and potential side effects

### 7. Create Pull Request

After making the code changes, create a pull request with:

**Title**: `[code-scanning-fix] Fix [rule-id]: [brief description]`

**Body**:
```markdown
# Security Fix: [Brief Description]

**Alert Number**: #[alert-number]
**Severity**: High
**Rule**: [rule-id]
**CWE**: [cwe-id]

## Vulnerability Description

[Describe the security vulnerability that was identified]

## Location

- **File**: [file-path]
- **Line**: [line-number]

## Fix Applied

[Explain the changes made to fix the vulnerability]

### Changes Made:
- [List specific changes, e.g., "Added input validation for user-supplied data"]
- [e.g., "Replaced unsafe function with secure alternative"]
- [e.g., "Added proper error handling"]

## Security Best Practices

[List the security best practices that were applied in this fix]

## Testing Considerations

[Note any testing that should be performed to validate the fix]

---
**Automated by**: Code Scanning Fixer Workflow
**Run ID**: (available in GitHub context)
```

### 8. Record Fixed Alert in Cache

After successfully creating the pull request:
- Append a new line to `/tmp/gh-aw/cache-memory/fixed-alerts.jsonl`
- Use the format: `{"alert_number": [alert-number], "fixed_at": "[current-timestamp]", "pr_number": [pr-number]}`
- This ensures the alert won't be selected again in future runs

## Security Guidelines

- **High Severity Only**: Only fix high severity alerts as specified in the requirements
- **Minimal Changes**: Make only the changes necessary to fix the security issue
- **No Breaking Changes**: Ensure the fix doesn't break existing functionality
- **Best Practices**: Follow security best practices for the specific vulnerability type
- **Code Quality**: Maintain code readability and maintainability
- **No Duplicate Fixes**: Always check cache before selecting an alert

## Cache Memory Format

The cache memory file `fixed-alerts.jsonl` uses JSON Lines format:
```jsonl
{"alert_number": 123, "fixed_at": "2024-01-15T10:30:00Z", "pr_number": 456}
{"alert_number": 124, "fixed_at": "2024-01-16T11:45:00Z", "pr_number": 457}
{"alert_number": 125, "fixed_at": "2024-01-17T09:20:00Z", "pr_number": 458}
```

Each line is a separate JSON object representing one fixed alert.

## Error Handling

If any step fails:
- **No High Severity Alerts**: Log "No high severity alerts found" and exit gracefully
- **All Alerts Already Fixed**: Log success message and exit gracefully
- **Read Error**: Report the error and exit
- **Fix Generation Failed**: Document why the fix couldn't be automated and exit

## Important Notes

- **Every 30 Minutes**: This workflow runs every 30 minutes to quickly address security alerts
- **One Alert at a Time**: Process only one alert per run to minimize risk
- **Safe Operation**: All changes go through pull request review before merging
- **Never Execute Untrusted Code**: Use read-only analysis tools
- **Track Progress**: Cache ensures no duplicate work

Remember: Your goal is to provide a secure, well-tested fix that can be reviewed and merged safely. Focus on quality and correctness over speed.
