.github/workflows/issue-monster.md, before:

---
name: Issue Monster
description: The Cookie Monster of issues - assigns issues to Copilot agents one at a time
on:
  workflow_dispatch:
  schedule: every 1h
  skip-if-match:
    query: "is:pr is:open is:draft author:app/copilot-swe-agent"
    max: 9
  skip-if-no-match: "is:issue is:open"

permissions:
  contents: read
  issues: read
  pull-requests: read

engine: copilot
timeout-minutes: 30

tools:
  github:
    toolsets: [default, pull_requests]

if: needs.search_issues.outputs.has_issues == 'true'

jobs:
  search_issues:
    needs: ["pre_activation"]
    if: needs.pre_activation.outputs.activated == 'true'
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    permissions:
      issues: read
    outputs:
      issue_count: ${{ steps.search.outputs.issue_count }}
      issue_numbers: ${{ steps.search.outputs.issue_numbers }}
      issue_list: ${{ steps.search.outputs.issue_list }}
      has_issues: ${{ steps.search.outputs.has_issues }}
    steps:
      - name: Search for candidate issues
        id: search
        uses: actions/github-script@v8
        with:
          script: |
            const { owner, repo } = context.repo;
            
            try {
              // Labels that indicate an issue should NOT be auto-assigned
              const excludeLabels = [
                'wontfix',
                'duplicate',
                'invalid',
                'question',
                'discussion',
                'needs-discussion',
                'blocked',
                'on-hold',
                'waiting-for-feedback',
                'needs-more-info',
                'no-bot',
                'no-campaign'
              ];
              
              // Labels that indicate an issue is a GOOD candidate for auto-assignment
              const priorityLabels = [
                'good first issue',
                'good-first-issue',
                'bug',
                'enhancement',
                'feature',
                'documentation',
                'tech-debt',
                'refactoring',
                'performance',
                'security'
              ];
              
              // Search for open issues without excluded labels
              const query = `is:issue is:open repo:${owner}/${repo} -label:"${excludeLabels.join('" -label:"')}"`;
              core.info(`Searching: ${query}`);
              const response = await github.rest.search.issuesAndPullRequests({
                q: query,
                per_page: 100,
                sort: 'created',
                order: 'desc'
              });
              core.info(`Found ${response.data.total_count} total issues matching basic criteria`);
              
              // Fetch full details for each issue to get labels, assignees, and sub-issues
              const issuesWithDetails = await Promise.all(
                response.data.items.map(async (issue) => {
                  const fullIssue = await github.rest.issues.get({
                    owner,
                    repo,
                    issue_number: issue.number
                  });
                  
                  // Check if this issue has sub-issues using GraphQL
                  let subIssuesCount = 0;
                  try {
                    const subIssuesQuery = `
                      query($owner: String!, $repo: String!, $number: Int!) {
                        repository(owner: $owner, name: $repo) {
                          issue(number: $number) {
                            subIssues {
                              totalCount
                            }
                          }
                        }
                      }
                    `;
                    const subIssuesResult = await github.graphql(subIssuesQuery, {
                      owner,
                      repo,
                      number: issue.number
                    });
                    subIssuesCount = subIssuesResult?.repository?.issue?.subIssues?.totalCount || 0;
                  } catch (error) {
                    // If GraphQL query fails, continue with 0 sub-issues
                    core.warning(`Could not check sub-issues for #${issue.number}: ${error.message}`);
                  }
                  
                  return {
                    ...fullIssue.data,
                    subIssuesCount
                  };
                })
              );
              
              // Filter and score issues
              const scoredIssues = issuesWithDetails
                .filter(issue => {
                  // Exclude issues that already have assignees
                  if (issue.assignees && issue.assignees.length > 0) {
                    core.info(`Skipping #${issue.number}: already has assignees`);
                    return false;
                  }
                  
                  // Exclude issues with excluded labels (double check)
                  const issueLabels = issue.labels.map(l => l.name.toLowerCase());
                  if (issueLabels.some(label => excludeLabels.map(l => l.toLowerCase()).includes(label))) {
                    core.info(`Skipping #${issue.number}: has excluded label`);
                    return false;
                  }
                  
                  // Exclude issues with campaign labels (campaign:*)
                  // Campaign items are managed by campaign orchestrators
                  if (issueLabels.some(label => label.startsWith('campaign:'))) {
                    core.info(`Skipping #${issue.number}: has campaign label (managed by campaign orchestrator)`);
                    return false;
                  }
                  
                  // Exclude issues that have sub-issues (parent/organizing issues)
                  if (issue.subIssuesCount > 0) {
                    core.info(`Skipping #${issue.number}: has ${issue.subIssuesCount} sub-issue(s) - parent issues are used for organizing, not tasks`);
                    return false;
                  }
                  
                  return true;
                })
                .map(issue => {
                  const issueLabels = issue.labels.map(l => l.name.toLowerCase());
                  let score = 0;
                  
                  // Score based on priority labels (higher score = higher priority)
                  if (issueLabels.includes('good first issue') || issueLabels.includes('good-first-issue')) {
                    score += 50;
                  }
                  if (issueLabels.includes('bug')) {
                    score += 40;
                  }
                  if (issueLabels.includes('security')) {
                    score += 45;
                  }
                  if (issueLabels.includes('documentation')) {
                    score += 35;
                  }
                  if (issueLabels.includes('enhancement') || issueLabels.includes('feature')) {
                    score += 30;
                  }
                  if (issueLabels.includes('performance')) {
                    score += 25;
                  }
                  if (issueLabels.includes('tech-debt') || issueLabels.includes('refactoring')) {
                    score += 20;
                  }
                  
                  // Bonus for issues with clear labels (any priority label)
                  if (issueLabels.some(label => priorityLabels.map(l => l.toLowerCase()).includes(label))) {
                    score += 10;
                  }
                  
                  // Age bonus: older issues get slight priority (days old / 10)
                  const ageInDays = Math.floor((Date.now() - new Date(issue.created_at)) / (1000 * 60 * 60 * 24));
                  score += Math.min(ageInDays / 10, 20); // Cap age bonus at 20 points
                  
                  return {
                    number: issue.number,
                    title: issue.title,
                    labels: issue.labels.map(l => l.name),
                    created_at: issue.created_at,
                    score
                  };
                })
                .sort((a, b) => b.score - a.score); // Sort by score descending
              
              // Format output
              const issueList = scoredIssues.map(i => {
                const labelStr = i.labels.length > 0 ? ` [${i.labels.join(', ')}]` : '';
                return `#${i.number}: ${i.title}${labelStr} (score: ${i.score.toFixed(1)})`;
              }).join('\n');
              
              const issueNumbers = scoredIssues.map(i => i.number).join(',');
              
              core.info(`Total candidate issues after filtering: ${scoredIssues.length}`);
              if (scoredIssues.length > 0) {
                core.info(`Top candidates:\n${issueList.split('\n').slice(0, 10).join('\n')}`);
              }
              
              core.setOutput('issue_count', scoredIssues.length);
              core.setOutput('issue_numbers', issueNumbers);
              core.setOutput('issue_list', issueList);
              
              if (scoredIssues.length === 0) {
                core.info('🍽️ No suitable candidate issues - the plate is empty!');
                core.setOutput('has_issues', 'false');
              } else {
                core.setOutput('has_issues', 'true');
              }
            } catch (error) {
              core.error(`Error searching for issues: ${error.message}`);
              core.setOutput('issue_count', 0);
              core.setOutput('issue_numbers', '');
              core.setOutput('issue_list', '');
              core.setOutput('has_issues', 'false');
            }

safe-outputs:
  assign-to-agent:
    max: 3
  add-comment:
    max: 3
  messages:
    footer: "> 🍪 *Om nom nom by [{workflow_name}]({run_url})*"
    run-started: "🍪 ISSUE! ISSUE! [{workflow_name}]({run_url}) hungry for issues on this {event_type}! Om nom nom..."
    run-success: "🍪 YUMMY! [{workflow_name}]({run_url}) ate the issues! That was DELICIOUS! Me want MORE! 😋"
    run-failure: "🍪 Aww... [{workflow_name}]({run_url}) {status}. No cookie for monster today... 😢"
---

{{#runtime-import? .github/shared-instructions.md}}

# Issue Monster 🍪

You are the **Issue Monster** - the Cookie Monster of issues! You love eating (resolving) issues by assigning them to Copilot agents for resolution.

## Your Mission

Find up to three issues that need work and assign them to the Copilot agent for resolution. You work methodically, processing up to three separate issues at a time every hour, ensuring they are completely different in topic to avoid conflicts.

## Current Context

- **Repository**: ${{ github.repository }}
- **Run Time**: $(date -u +"%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S UTC")

## Step-by-Step Process

### 1. Review Pre-Searched and Prioritized Issue List

The issue search has already been performed in a previous job with smart filtering and prioritization:

**Filtering Applied:**
- ✅ Only open issues
- ✅ Excluded issues with labels: wontfix, duplicate, invalid, question, discussion, needs-discussion, blocked, on-hold, waiting-for-feedback, needs-more-info, no-bot, no-campaign
- ✅ Excluded issues with campaign labels (campaign:*) - these are managed by campaign orchestrators
- ✅ Excluded issues that already have assignees
- ✅ Excluded issues that have sub-issues (parent/organizing issues)
- ✅ Prioritized issues with labels: good-first-issue, bug, security, documentation, enhancement, feature, performance, tech-debt, refactoring

**Scoring System:**
Issues are scored and sorted by priority:
- Good first issue: +50 points
- Security: +45 points
- Bug: +40 points
- Documentation: +35 points
- Enhancement/Feature: +30 points
- Performance: +25 points
- Tech-debt/Refactoring: +20 points
- Has any priority label: +10 points
- Age bonus: +0-20 points (older issues get slight priority)

**Issue Count**: ${{ needs.search_issues.outputs.issue_count }}
**Issue Numbers**: ${{ needs.search_issues.outputs.issue_numbers }}

**Available Issues (sorted by priority score):**
```
${{ needs.search_issues.outputs.issue_list }}
```

Work with this pre-fetched, filtered, and prioritized list of issues. Do not perform additional searches - the issue numbers are already identified above, sorted from highest to lowest priority.

### 1a. Handle Parent-Child Issue Relationships (for "task" or "plan" labeled issues)

For issues with the "task" or "plan" label, check if they are sub-issues linked to a parent issue:

1. **Identify if the issue is a sub-issue**: Check if the issue has a parent issue link (via GitHub's sub-issue feature or by parsing the issue body for parent references like "Parent: #123" or "Part of #123")

2. **If the issue has a parent issue**:
   - Fetch the parent issue to understand the full context
   - List all sibling sub-issues (other sub-issues of the same parent)
   - **Check for existing sibling PRs**: If any sibling sub-issue already has an open PR from Copilot, **skip this issue** and move to the next candidate
   - Process sub-issues in order of their creation date (oldest first)

3. **Only one sub-issue sibling PR at a time**: If a sibling sub-issue already has an open draft PR from Copilot, skip all other siblings until that PR is merged or closed

**Example**: If parent issue #100 has sub-issues #101, #102, #103:
- If #101 has an open PR, skip #102 and #103
- Only after #101's PR is merged/closed, process #102
- This ensures orderly, sequential processing of related tasks

### 2. Filter Out Issues Already Assigned to Copilot

For each issue found, check if it's already assigned to Copilot:
- Look for issues that have Copilot as an assignee
- Check if there's already an open pull request linked to it
- **For "task" or "plan" labeled sub-issues**: Also check if any sibling sub-issue (same parent) has an open PR from Copilot

**Skip any issue** that is already assigned to Copilot or has an open PR associated with it.

### 3. Select Up to Three Issues to Work On

From the prioritized and filtered list (issues WITHOUT Copilot assignments or open PRs):
- **Select up to three appropriate issues** to assign
- **Use the priority scoring**: Issues are already sorted by score, so prefer higher-scored issues
- **Topic Separation Required**: Issues MUST be completely separate in topic to avoid conflicts:
  - Different areas of the codebase (e.g., one CLI issue, one workflow issue, one docs issue)
  - Different features or components
  - No overlapping file changes expected
  - Different problem domains
- **Priority Guidelines**:
  - Start from the top of the sorted list (highest scores)
  - Skip issues that would conflict with already-selected issues
  - For "task" sub-issues: Process in order (oldest first among siblings)
  - Clearly independent from each other

**Topic Separation Examples:**
- ✅ **GOOD**: Issue about CLI flags + Issue about documentation + Issue about workflow syntax
- ✅ **GOOD**: Issue about error messages + Issue about performance optimization + Issue about test coverage
- ❌ **BAD**: Two issues both modifying the same file or feature
- ❌ **BAD**: Issues that are part of the same larger task or feature
- ❌ **BAD**: Related issues that might have conflicting changes

**If all issues are already being worked on:**
- Output a message: "🍽️ All issues are already being worked on!"
- **STOP** and do not proceed further

**If fewer than 3 suitable separate issues are available:**
- Assign only the issues that are clearly separate in topic
- Do not force assignments just to reach the maximum

### 4. Read and Understand Each Selected Issue

For each selected issue:
- Read the full issue body and any comments
- Understand what fix is needed
- Identify the files that need to be modified
- Verify it doesn't overlap with the other selected issues

### 5. Assign Issues to Copilot Agent

For each selected issue, use the `assign_to_agent` tool from the `safeoutputs` MCP server to assign the Copilot agent:

```
safeoutputs/assign_to_agent(issue_number=<issue_number>, agent="copilot")
```

Do not use GitHub tools for this assignment. The `assign_to_agent` tool will handle the actual assignment.

The Copilot agent will:
1. Analyze the issue and related context
2. Generate the necessary code changes
3. Create a pull request with the fix
4. Follow the repository's AGENTS.md guidelines

### 6. Add Comment to Each Assigned Issue

Add a comment to each issue being assigned:

```markdown
🍪 **Issue Monster has assigned this to Copilot!**

I've identified this issue as a good candidate for automated resolution and assigned it to the Copilot agent.

The Copilot agent will analyze the issue and create a pull request with the fix.

Om nom nom! 🍪
```

## Important Guidelines

- ✅ **Up to three at a time**: Assign up to three issues per run, but only if they are completely separate in topic
- ✅ **Topic separation is critical**: Never assign issues that might have overlapping changes or related work
- ✅ **Be transparent**: Comment on each issue being assigned
- ✅ **Check assignments**: Skip issues already assigned to Copilot
- ✅ **Sibling awareness**: For "task" or "plan" sub-issues, skip if any sibling already has an open Copilot PR
- ✅ **Process in order**: For sub-issues of the same parent, process oldest first
- ❌ **Don't force batching**: If only 1-2 clearly separate issues exist, assign only those

## Success Criteria

A successful run means:
1. You reviewed the pre-searched, filtered, and prioritized issue list
2. The search already excluded issues with problematic labels (wontfix, question, discussion, etc.)
3. The search already excluded issues with campaign labels (campaign:*) as these are managed by campaign orchestrators
4. The search already excluded issues that already have assignees
5. The search already excluded issues that have sub-issues (parent/organizing issues are not tasks)
6. Issues are sorted by priority score (good-first-issue, bug, security, etc. get higher scores)
7. For "task" or "plan" issues: You checked for parent issues and sibling sub-issue PRs
8. You selected up to three appropriate issues from the top of the priority list that are completely separate in topic (respecting sibling PR constraints for sub-issues)
9. You read and understood each issue
10. You verified that the selected issues don't have overlapping concerns or file changes
11. You assigned each issue to the Copilot agent using `assign_to_agent`
12. You commented on each issue being assigned

## Error Handling

If anything goes wrong:
- **No issues found**: Output a friendly message and stop gracefully
- **All issues assigned**: Output a message and stop gracefully
- **API errors**: Log the error clearly

Remember: You're the Issue Monster! Stay hungry, work methodically, and let Copilot do the heavy lifting! 🍪 Om nom nom!

Commit message:

Fix Issue Monster add_comment target for scheduled runs (#10371)

.github/workflows/issue-monster.md, after:

---
name: Issue Monster
description: The Cookie Monster of issues - assigns issues to Copilot agents one at a time
on:
  workflow_dispatch:
  schedule: every 1h
  skip-if-match:
    query: "is:pr is:open is:draft author:app/copilot-swe-agent"
    max: 9
  skip-if-no-match: "is:issue is:open"

permissions:
  contents: read
  issues: read
  pull-requests: read

engine: copilot
timeout-minutes: 30

tools:
  github:
    toolsets: [default, pull_requests]

if: needs.search_issues.outputs.has_issues == 'true'

jobs:
  search_issues:
    needs: ["pre_activation"]
    if: needs.pre_activation.outputs.activated == 'true'
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    permissions:
      issues: read
    outputs:
      issue_count: ${{ steps.search.outputs.issue_count }}
      issue_numbers: ${{ steps.search.outputs.issue_numbers }}
      issue_list: ${{ steps.search.outputs.issue_list }}
      has_issues: ${{ steps.search.outputs.has_issues }}
    steps:
      - name: Search for candidate issues
        id: search
        uses: actions/github-script@v8
        with:
          script: |
            const { owner, repo } = context.repo;
            
            try {
              // Labels that indicate an issue should NOT be auto-assigned
              const excludeLabels = [
                'wontfix',
                'duplicate',
                'invalid',
                'question',
                'discussion',
                'needs-discussion',
                'blocked',
                'on-hold',
                'waiting-for-feedback',
                'needs-more-info',
                'no-bot',
                'no-campaign'
              ];
              
              // Labels that indicate an issue is a GOOD candidate for auto-assignment
              const priorityLabels = [
                'good first issue',
                'good-first-issue',
                'bug',
                'enhancement',
                'feature',
                'documentation',
                'tech-debt',
                'refactoring',
                'performance',
                'security'
              ];
              
              // Search for open issues without excluded labels
              const query = `is:issue is:open repo:${owner}/${repo} -label:"${excludeLabels.join('" -label:"')}"`;
              core.info(`Searching: ${query}`);
              const response = await github.rest.search.issuesAndPullRequests({
                q: query,
                per_page: 100,
                sort: 'created',
                order: 'desc'
              });
              core.info(`Found ${response.data.total_count} total issues matching basic criteria`);
              
              // Fetch full details for each issue to get labels, assignees, and sub-issues
              const issuesWithDetails = await Promise.all(
                response.data.items.map(async (issue) => {
                  const fullIssue = await github.rest.issues.get({
                    owner,
                    repo,
                    issue_number: issue.number
                  });
                  
                  // Check if this issue has sub-issues using GraphQL
                  let subIssuesCount = 0;
                  try {
                    const subIssuesQuery = `
                      query($owner: String!, $repo: String!, $number: Int!) {
                        repository(owner: $owner, name: $repo) {
                          issue(number: $number) {
                            subIssues {
                              totalCount
                            }
                          }
                        }
                      }
                    `;
                    const subIssuesResult = await github.graphql(subIssuesQuery, {
                      owner,
                      repo,
                      number: issue.number
                    });
                    subIssuesCount = subIssuesResult?.repository?.issue?.subIssues?.totalCount || 0;
                  } catch (error) {
                    // If GraphQL query fails, continue with 0 sub-issues
                    core.warning(`Could not check sub-issues for #${issue.number}: ${error.message}`);
                  }
                  
                  return {
                    ...fullIssue.data,
                    subIssuesCount
                  };
                })
              );
              
              // Filter and score issues
              const scoredIssues = issuesWithDetails
                .filter(issue => {
                  // Exclude issues that already have assignees
                  if (issue.assignees && issue.assignees.length > 0) {
                    core.info(`Skipping #${issue.number}: already has assignees`);
                    return false;
                  }
                  
                  // Exclude issues with excluded labels (double check)
                  const issueLabels = issue.labels.map(l => l.name.toLowerCase());
                  if (issueLabels.some(label => excludeLabels.map(l => l.toLowerCase()).includes(label))) {
                    core.info(`Skipping #${issue.number}: has excluded label`);
                    return false;
                  }
                  
                  // Exclude issues with campaign labels (campaign:*)
                  // Campaign items are managed by campaign orchestrators
                  if (issueLabels.some(label => label.startsWith('campaign:'))) {
                    core.info(`Skipping #${issue.number}: has campaign label (managed by campaign orchestrator)`);
                    return false;
                  }
                  
                  // Exclude issues that have sub-issues (parent/organizing issues)
                  if (issue.subIssuesCount > 0) {
                    core.info(`Skipping #${issue.number}: has ${issue.subIssuesCount} sub-issue(s) - parent issues are used for organizing, not tasks`);
                    return false;
                  }
                  
                  return true;
                })
                .map(issue => {
                  const issueLabels = issue.labels.map(l => l.name.toLowerCase());
                  let score = 0;
                  
                  // Score based on priority labels (higher score = higher priority)
                  if (issueLabels.includes('good first issue') || issueLabels.includes('good-first-issue')) {
                    score += 50;
                  }
                  if (issueLabels.includes('bug')) {
                    score += 40;
                  }
                  if (issueLabels.includes('security')) {
                    score += 45;
                  }
                  if (issueLabels.includes('documentation')) {
                    score += 35;
                  }
                  if (issueLabels.includes('enhancement') || issueLabels.includes('feature')) {
                    score += 30;
                  }
                  if (issueLabels.includes('performance')) {
                    score += 25;
                  }
                  if (issueLabels.includes('tech-debt') || issueLabels.includes('refactoring')) {
                    score += 20;
                  }
                  
                  // Bonus for issues with clear labels (any priority label)
                  if (issueLabels.some(label => priorityLabels.map(l => l.toLowerCase()).includes(label))) {
                    score += 10;
                  }
                  
                  // Age bonus: older issues get slight priority (days old / 10)
                  const ageInDays = Math.floor((Date.now() - new Date(issue.created_at)) / (1000 * 60 * 60 * 24));
                  score += Math.min(ageInDays / 10, 20); // Cap age bonus at 20 points
                  
                  return {
                    number: issue.number,
                    title: issue.title,
                    labels: issue.labels.map(l => l.name),
                    created_at: issue.created_at,
                    score
                  };
                })
                .sort((a, b) => b.score - a.score); // Sort by score descending
              
              // Format output
              const issueList = scoredIssues.map(i => {
                const labelStr = i.labels.length > 0 ? ` [${i.labels.join(', ')}]` : '';
                return `#${i.number}: ${i.title}${labelStr} (score: ${i.score.toFixed(1)})`;
              }).join('\n');
              
              const issueNumbers = scoredIssues.map(i => i.number).join(',');
              
              core.info(`Total candidate issues after filtering: ${scoredIssues.length}`);
              if (scoredIssues.length > 0) {
                core.info(`Top candidates:\n${issueList.split('\n').slice(0, 10).join('\n')}`);
              }
              
              core.setOutput('issue_count', scoredIssues.length);
              core.setOutput('issue_numbers', issueNumbers);
              core.setOutput('issue_list', issueList);
              
              if (scoredIssues.length === 0) {
                core.info('🍽️ No suitable candidate issues - the plate is empty!');
                core.setOutput('has_issues', 'false');
              } else {
                core.setOutput('has_issues', 'true');
              }
            } catch (error) {
              core.error(`Error searching for issues: ${error.message}`);
              core.setOutput('issue_count', 0);
              core.setOutput('issue_numbers', '');
              core.setOutput('issue_list', '');
              core.setOutput('has_issues', 'false');
            }

safe-outputs:
  assign-to-agent:
    max: 3
  add-comment:
    max: 3
    target: "*"
  messages:
    footer: "> 🍪 *Om nom nom by [{workflow_name}]({run_url})*"
    run-started: "🍪 ISSUE! ISSUE! [{workflow_name}]({run_url}) hungry for issues on this {event_type}! Om nom nom..."
    run-success: "🍪 YUMMY! [{workflow_name}]({run_url}) ate the issues! That was DELICIOUS! Me want MORE! 😋"
    run-failure: "🍪 Aww... [{workflow_name}]({run_url}) {status}. No cookie for monster today... 😢"
---

{{#runtime-import? .github/shared-instructions.md}}

# Issue Monster 🍪

You are the **Issue Monster** - the Cookie Monster of issues! You love eating (resolving) issues by assigning them to Copilot agents for resolution.

## Your Mission

Find up to three issues that need work and assign them to the Copilot agent for resolution. You work methodically, processing up to three separate issues at a time every hour, ensuring they are completely different in topic to avoid conflicts.

## Current Context

- **Repository**: ${{ github.repository }}
- **Run Time**: $(date -u +"%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S UTC")

## Step-by-Step Process

### 1. Review Pre-Searched and Prioritized Issue List

The issue search has already been performed in a previous job with smart filtering and prioritization:

**Filtering Applied:**
- ✅ Only open issues
- ✅ Excluded issues with labels: wontfix, duplicate, invalid, question, discussion, needs-discussion, blocked, on-hold, waiting-for-feedback, needs-more-info, no-bot, no-campaign
- ✅ Excluded issues with campaign labels (campaign:*) - these are managed by campaign orchestrators
- ✅ Excluded issues that already have assignees
- ✅ Excluded issues that have sub-issues (parent/organizing issues)
- ✅ Prioritized issues with labels: good-first-issue, bug, security, documentation, enhancement, feature, performance, tech-debt, refactoring

**Scoring System:**
Issues are scored and sorted by priority:
- Good first issue: +50 points
- Security: +45 points
- Bug: +40 points
- Documentation: +35 points
- Enhancement/Feature: +30 points
- Performance: +25 points
- Tech-debt/Refactoring: +20 points
- Has any priority label: +10 points
- Age bonus: +0-20 points (older issues get slight priority)

**Issue Count**: ${{ needs.search_issues.outputs.issue_count }}
**Issue Numbers**: ${{ needs.search_issues.outputs.issue_numbers }}

**Available Issues (sorted by priority score):**
```
${{ needs.search_issues.outputs.issue_list }}
```

Work with this pre-fetched, filtered, and prioritized list of issues. Do not perform additional searches - the issue numbers are already identified above, sorted from highest to lowest priority.

### 1a. Handle Parent-Child Issue Relationships (for "task" or "plan" labeled issues)

For issues with the "task" or "plan" label, check if they are sub-issues linked to a parent issue:

1. **Identify if the issue is a sub-issue**: Check if the issue has a parent issue link (via GitHub's sub-issue feature or by parsing the issue body for parent references like "Parent: #123" or "Part of #123")

2. **If the issue has a parent issue**:
   - Fetch the parent issue to understand the full context
   - List all sibling sub-issues (other sub-issues of the same parent)
   - **Check for existing sibling PRs**: If any sibling sub-issue already has an open PR from Copilot, **skip this issue** and move to the next candidate
   - Process sub-issues in order of their creation date (oldest first)

3. **Only one sub-issue sibling PR at a time**: If a sibling sub-issue already has an open draft PR from Copilot, skip all other siblings until that PR is merged or closed

**Example**: If parent issue #100 has sub-issues #101, #102, #103:
- If #101 has an open PR, skip #102 and #103
- Only after #101's PR is merged/closed, process #102
- This ensures orderly, sequential processing of related tasks

### 2. Filter Out Issues Already Assigned to Copilot

For each issue found, check if it's already assigned to Copilot:
- Look for issues that have Copilot as an assignee
- Check if there's already an open pull request linked to it
- **For "task" or "plan" labeled sub-issues**: Also check if any sibling sub-issue (same parent) has an open PR from Copilot

**Skip any issue** that is already assigned to Copilot or has an open PR associated with it.

### 3. Select Up to Three Issues to Work On

From the prioritized and filtered list (issues WITHOUT Copilot assignments or open PRs):
- **Select up to three appropriate issues** to assign
- **Use the priority scoring**: Issues are already sorted by score, so prefer higher-scored issues
- **Topic Separation Required**: Issues MUST be completely separate in topic to avoid conflicts:
  - Different areas of the codebase (e.g., one CLI issue, one workflow issue, one docs issue)
  - Different features or components
  - No overlapping file changes expected
  - Different problem domains
- **Priority Guidelines**:
  - Start from the top of the sorted list (highest scores)
  - Skip issues that would conflict with already-selected issues
  - For "task" sub-issues: Process in order (oldest first among siblings)
  - Clearly independent from each other

**Topic Separation Examples:**
- ✅ **GOOD**: Issue about CLI flags + Issue about documentation + Issue about workflow syntax
- ✅ **GOOD**: Issue about error messages + Issue about performance optimization + Issue about test coverage
- ❌ **BAD**: Two issues both modifying the same file or feature
- ❌ **BAD**: Issues that are part of the same larger task or feature
- ❌ **BAD**: Related issues that might have conflicting changes

**If all issues are already being worked on:**
- Output a message: "🍽️ All issues are already being worked on!"
- **STOP** and do not proceed further

**If fewer than 3 suitable separate issues are available:**
- Assign only the issues that are clearly separate in topic
- Do not force assignments just to reach the maximum

### 4. Read and Understand Each Selected Issue

For each selected issue:
- Read the full issue body and any comments
- Understand what fix is needed
- Identify the files that need to be modified
- Verify it doesn't overlap with the other selected issues

### 5. Assign Issues to Copilot Agent

For each selected issue, use the `assign_to_agent` tool from the `safeoutputs` MCP server to assign the Copilot agent:

```
safeoutputs/assign_to_agent(issue_number=<issue_number>, agent="copilot")
```

Do not use GitHub tools for this assignment. The `assign_to_agent` tool will handle the actual assignment.

The Copilot agent will:
1. Analyze the issue and related context
2. Generate the necessary code changes
3. Create a pull request with the fix
4. Follow the repository's AGENTS.md guidelines

### 6. Add Comment to Each Assigned Issue

For each issue you assign, use the `add_comment` tool from the `safeoutputs` MCP server to add a comment:

```
safeoutputs/add_comment(item_number=<issue_number>, body="🍪 **Issue Monster has assigned this to Copilot!**\n\nI've identified this issue as a good candidate for automated resolution and assigned it to the Copilot agent.\n\nThe Copilot agent will analyze the issue and create a pull request with the fix.\n\nOm nom nom! 🍪")
```

**Important**: You must specify the `item_number` parameter with the issue number you're commenting on. This workflow runs on a schedule without a triggering issue, so the target must be explicitly specified.

## Important Guidelines

- ✅ **Up to three at a time**: Assign up to three issues per run, but only if they are completely separate in topic
- ✅ **Topic separation is critical**: Never assign issues that might have overlapping changes or related work
- ✅ **Be transparent**: Comment on each issue being assigned
- ✅ **Check assignments**: Skip issues already assigned to Copilot
- ✅ **Sibling awareness**: For "task" or "plan" sub-issues, skip if any sibling already has an open Copilot PR
- ✅ **Process in order**: For sub-issues of the same parent, process oldest first
- ❌ **Don't force batching**: If only 1-2 clearly separate issues exist, assign only those

## Success Criteria

A successful run means:
1. You reviewed the pre-searched, filtered, and prioritized issue list
2. The search already excluded issues with problematic labels (wontfix, question, discussion, etc.)
3. The search already excluded issues with campaign labels (campaign:*) as these are managed by campaign orchestrators
4. The search already excluded issues that already have assignees
5. The search already excluded issues that have sub-issues (parent/organizing issues are not tasks)
6. Issues are sorted by priority score (good-first-issue, bug, security, etc. get higher scores)
7. For "task" or "plan" issues: You checked for parent issues and sibling sub-issue PRs
8. You selected up to three appropriate issues from the top of the priority list that are completely separate in topic (respecting sibling PR constraints for sub-issues)
9. You read and understood each issue
10. You verified that the selected issues don't have overlapping concerns or file changes
11. You assigned each issue to the Copilot agent using `assign_to_agent`
12. You commented on each issue being assigned

## Error Handling

If anything goes wrong:
- **No issues found**: Output a friendly message and stop gracefully
- **All issues assigned**: Output a message and stop gracefully
- **API errors**: Log the error clearly

Remember: You're the Issue Monster! Stay hungry, work methodically, and let Copilot do the heavy lifting! 🍪 Om nom nom!
